Overview & Thoughts: Despite loving what I think is a stoat on the cover of Meadow, I don't think it does justice to how beautiful everything in the box is. This card-drafting game is filled with over 200 hand-painted and frame-worthy illustrations. While trying not to be distracted by the card art, you'll be collecting flora, fauna, and landscapes to build a tableau that's better than your opponents (and maybe sometimes just picking the cards you think are the cutest, because how am I supposed to pass up a badger?).

Meadow is played over a set number of rounds (by player count), with five turns each round denoted by path tokens. Each path token has a number on one end and a bonus action on the other. You choose which of the two you want to use:

The number end allows you to draft a card from the corresponding row or column of the central board. After drafting, you can choose to play a card to your tableau (some cards require specific terrain types or previously played cards).

The special action end is placed around the campfire board to perform other actions, such as playing additional cards or getting more road tokens.

The goal is to create a tableau where cards build on each other, strategically placing them to account for increasingly difficult requirements. Ultimately, points are tallied from your entire tableau and campfire board achievements. That's it: no secret objectives, no resources or coins, no tech tracks. We've had someone go hard on the landscapes and run away with the game, but other plays proved it's not a surefire strategy, which is always a relief.

Meadow has impressive depth for how accessible the game is. It's a relatively short teach with simple enough mechanics, but the tableau-building isn't easy. There's not a lot of forgiveness in choosing which icons to cover while working toward higher-scoring cards on the board, but it's rewarding when you get a good chain going. Drafting always adds an element of competition without being overtly aggressive, and the gameplay mirrors the artwork–it stands out but in a serene way.
Good review.
This game totally replaced Splendor for me. I find this much more appealing and the illustrations are... Magnificent!
Very relaxing game, but with a good dose of competition (the race to claim those bonuses in the Campfire Board can be pretty exciting).

Meadow: Where the wild things are!: Meadow is a tableau building designed by Klemens Kalicki, published by Rebel Studio, and featuring the artwork of Karolina Kijak, featuring beautiful hand painted watercolors. It definitely catches your attention because of the fantastic artwork, with all cards being unique, but it gets to the table again and again thanks to the gameplay.

In this game you are an explorer competing for the prestigious (? ) title of most skilled nature observer. You will walk different paths and observe landscapes, different kinds of animals, and you will be picking up the little treasures that you find along the way.

Gameplay overview
In Meadow you are building a tableau of cards in front of you. Each card has some symbols that indicate what the cards represent (top left) and, under these, the prerequisites that this card has for being placed. As you expand your meadow, you will cover previously laid cards making the ecosystem evolve and transform. Each player starts the game with some cards in their hand, that may inform them of the direction that they could focus their play.

The rule of thumb to play a card is that the prerequisite symbols that your card requires have to be visible somewhere on your tableau. Then, it has to be placed covering a card that has one of those prerequisites. There are cards that don’t have any prerequisite for being placed, these are ground cards, which constitute the building block of your tableau, and you are limited to 10 of them at maximum. Other special cards are landscapes that can only be placed if there is a free path token (and they are played landscape-wise, that is horizontally).



Each player has 5 arrow tiles that represent the actions that they are going to take each round (4 in a 4 player game). These have a number from 1 to 4 plus a joker on the pointy side, and a special action on the flat side. There are two main boards on which you will play these arrows: one with a grid of 4x4 cards, the other one is the campfire board. The action you will take depends on where you place the arrow, although generally you will place it in the 4x4 grid.



Take a card and play a card. If you play an arrow on a side of the 4x4 grid, you will take the 1st, 2nd, 3rd or 4th card of the row where you placed the arrow, depending on the number on that arrow. Afterwards, you will have the possibility to play a card from your hand (not necessarily the one that you just took). The cards on the grid come from different decks, each one having different types of cards in them (for example, the West-Deck has only ground cards).

Go to the campfire. You place an arrow in the campfire board (the flat side of the arrow) and execute the action depicted on it. This does not allow you to play a card after executing the action, but this is an action that you will have to take multiple times in a game. It is the only way to get more path tokens for your landscapes, but this is also the only way to get the objectives done. If you have two symbols on your tableau that match two adjacent symbols around the campfire, you can claim these objectives as an extra source of points at the end of the game.

The game ends with the 6th round (8th at 4 players). After that, each player sums up the points depicted on each of their cards and adds them to the points coming from objectives. Every card (except ground cards) grants a number of points that usually is proportional to the prerequisites it has. To no one's surprise, the player with the most points wins.



Feel of the game
The game is very open from the beginning. There are many directions that you can take, and you have to be setting your own objectives trying to find a path that seizes the opportunities of the cards available for you. This has a bit of a “sand-box” feeling, no card is a goal on itself, but part of a growing system. The puzzle is therefore very dynamic in which some symbols are going to be covered and then others will appear.

To guide your path, you are given cards at the beginning of each game and there are public objectives that require you to have 2 symbols showing on your tableau. Since you get a north card and these usually have more requirements, it is good to try and focus on that one. On the other hand, the objectives are one of the main ways the game has to direct your attention to some specific cards, rather than trying to go with whatever you can play.

 

There are some key cards that are difficult to get into your meadow, the big animals from the north deck (that appear in the second half of the game) and houses. Specifically these last ones require players to always be looking for stones in some grounds. In general, however, it seems like the game is trying to make you keep your options open.

The restriction of 10 ground cards is usually not too bad, however you will want to use opportunities to get extra path tokens using the back of one of the arrow actions (2-numbered arrow). This forfeits playing a card, but allows you to diversify your strategy towards a direction that does not cover any of your current symbols (because landscape cards don’t have symbols on them). Due to the dynamic nature of covering symbols to place new cards, it seems that getting more path tokens is one of these actions that you should not pass on during a game, while the others are more circumstantial, depending on you wanting a specific card (1 and 3-numbered arrows) or having the possibility of playing multiple cards in one turn (4-numbered arrow).



Towards the end of the game, you always have less options, and will feel how you are running out of steam. This is most likely due to you discarding cards from your hand to place some key elements onto your tableau, or simply because a lot of the symbols that you initially had, have been already covered. This can leave you with a little bit of reactive play towards the end of the game. The key is trying to time this end of steam with the end of the game itself. For us, paths and landscapes are what really makes up the last rounds.

This game first catches the eye because of its presentation, but we have noticed that not everybody is engaged with its artwork. The iconography is so clear, and the whole presentation just encourages people to engage with the game from the get go, without any barrier to entry or big rules overhead. Every card is indexed in an appendix, which gives you some background on what it represents. This attention to detail is something that we personally appreciate a lot in games, and many times we have gone to the appendix to check animal facts.



Notes on player count
The game can be played from 2-4 and includes a solo mode which simulates the 2 player experience. However, we strongly believe that the sweet spot is 3 players. The reason for this is because at 2 players, there is a bit of card cycling that is missing. You definitely want to see more cards appear on the general display, and the more players take cards from there, the more new cards are going to appear. However, we do play the game at 2 players very often.

The counterpart to this is the 4 player game. To guarantee that everybody is the first player twice and so that you get the same amount of choices, the game lasts 2 more rounds. Even if you do not get the “joker” action selection arrow at this player count, the extra rounds makes the game feel longer than necessary. This is the only complaint when playing in 4, and you can easily house-rule that the game just lasts 6 rounds at any player count. (This is actually established in the Adventure Book  as the way to play at 4.)



Thoughts based on our experience
From the first time we played this game, we instantly fell in love with it. This is because of the way that the gameplay is designed as an ever evolving and growing ecosystem. First of all, it is incredibly thematic, as you can really make sense of why a card requires another type of card. For instance, houses need a solid ground to be placed on, and animals may be eaten by other animals. This is how the game merges the mechanisms with its theme in a very coherent and clever way.

Theme is important, but for us the key to Meadow is its cardplay. It is full of interesting decisions in which you have to constantly evaluate when to cover which card, and if these directions are going to enable or disable future cards. This is a very subtle but effective way of hiding an economy in the game, it is exchanging one “resource” for another, some of them upgrading, some of them strategic downgrading. We find this puzzle very engaging.

Timing is therefore a crucial element to the strategy in this game. Not only when playing cards and covering symbols, but also regarding when to take a secondary action on the campfire board. You will want to collect path tokens, or play 2 cards if possible, but you want to also combine this action with claiming an objective. This really elevates the strategy and introduces the sprinkles of interaction to this game.

We definitely do not get tired of this game, which has become one of our most played games of all time. It is one of our top games and we do not see this ever changing. The puzzle only grows as we know what are the kind of cards that can appear in each deck, how to play and plan for the possibilities that can arise when revealing new cards.

 

Conclusion
Meadow is a delightful game that has a stunning table presence and an engaging gameplay on top of it. The whole package is perfectly crafted to look beautiful, with every little detail taken care of. It is a game that pleases the eyes but that is also challenging, presenting you with some interesting decisions and some hard ones. The excitement of seeing the next card is always there, adding a lot of elements of surprise to the whole experience.

We definitely recommend this game to any nature lover, to those who love beautiful artwork and tableau building games. For gamers out there that love hand management and try to optimize the cardplay in a very dynamic ecosystem of cards that make you adapt to the available cards, reacting and compromising with changes to the main board. From us, there is only appreciation for this game.

PS. If you have not opened the envelopes, do open them up! There are some very nice elements in there that can be added from the first game.



If you got this far, please consider leaving a 'thumbs up'

Thank you for reading!

- Ottavia and César


Come say hi @ladybugmeeple on Instagram!
https://www.instagram.com/ladybugmeeple/
Wonderful review! I agree with you, the sweet spot is 3 players imo!
Great review of great Game

Meadow; Yay or Nay?: Meadow

Quick Overview:

I would describe this game as a drafting meets tableau-building experience. Thematically, you are going on a hike and observing a mix of plants and critters as well as beautiful sceneries.

Each player will be given 4 or 5 signposts with values ranging from 1-4 as well as a “joker” at 2 players, these are used to draft cards from a 4x4 grid with slots around it, so let's say I put in my “3” signpost in a bottom column, I will get the 3rd card going up from it. These signposts all have a unique ability attached to them as well which can be used by opting to visit the campfire instead of grabbing a card from the main board.

The tableau-building aspect is limited to 10 columns wide and you will build upwards on top of those. Every column has to start with a "biome card” and those are never hidden, they are represented by a colored box at the bottom of it depicting things like marshes, grasslands, mountains etc.. Cards will also have a main type depicted in the upper left along with requirements to play them. You will proceed laying down cards on top of others depending on their requirements, so if I want to play this lil birdie, he might ask of me to have an insect and a grassland icon, I must then play him on top of either of these two things, which means I won't have access to the thing it's “eating”.There are also a few scenery cards which won't be played on top of others, but they will require another limited resource called road tokens, they still have requirements to fulfill like the rest. Repeat this drafting and playing cards process for 6-8 rounds of 4-5 actions each and tally up your points to declare a winner!

5 things I like

-I’ve played a couple hundred different games through the last few years, and I can without a doubt say this is the most stunningly illustrated game I’ve personally witnessed. It is beyond beautiful, they nailed it out of the park as the saying goes!

-It’s impossible to call a winner before the final tally, scores are usually very close which makes for a pleasant experience especially during the game, you can focus on your beautiful tableau and cards instead of worrying about being too far behind or ahead. That said, there’s still a nice bit of tension with the common goals and in the drafting, but I wouldn’t define Meadow as a highly competitive experience or anything like that.

-I really enjoyed the drafting mechanic here, debating which signposts to use in which order and when to use them for their special effects is a more thoughtful and involved puzzle than I would give it credit for at a glance.

-It’s a pretty accessible game, I would happily teach this to some less avid gamers and I am pretty sure they would pick it up and enjoy it without much hassle or confusion.

-I love the little stories that come to life as you build up your Tableau. For example; I saw this cozy little house next to these rocks as I was hiking. Near this house was a plentiful berry bush. I then saw a birdie land to eat the fruits, but a mongoose jumped out of nowhere and ate the birdie, only for it to be eaten by a wolf not long after!

3 Things I don't like

-I feel the game overstays its welcome a tad, I’d prefer it to be about ⅔ of its current length. That being said, we’ve added the expansion to the mix which I do like for what it brings to the table, but it also contributes to a longer setup and playtime, a bit of a 50/50 on that one.

-The game ramps up by introducing higher scoring cards in the second half, but those have many requirements. I like the idea, but my problem is there’s no real way of planning for them. You do what you can in the first half, and maybe you will have an easy time meeting those, or it can feel like nothing you’ve built up matches with those new cards, and that can be a bit of a bummer.

-For what is a relaxed and accessible gaming experience, it does induce a good amount of AP (Analysis Paralysis). Between the signpost usage, many options of cards to draft from and the tough decisions of where to lay down your new cards, it can definitely lead to some longer turns. This is probably the main reason behind my first complaint about length.

Pictures

Setup with downstream expansion


Look at a mid-game tableau


Beautiful Illustrations


Final Thoughts and Score

I am coming in with a good but not excellent conclusion here. I think Meadow is a gorgeous and well-designed game. My few complaints hold it back from being a truly stellar experience for me, but I am still very happy to table it occasionally. I definitely recommend at least giving it a try. If you are a fan of pure tableau-builders and more relaxed nature themes, I would be surprised if this one didn’t charm you!

7.5/10
It is comparable in the sense that they both have a beautiful production and use Tableau-Building as the main scoring mechanism. There isn't really any resources or engines being used in Meadows contrary to Everdell, it's more about pure drafting and sequencing of your cards. Hope you enjoy the experience if you pull the trigger. it's one of the few games I don't really care about the results, I really just want to draft and play the cutest cards haha!
The promos (which I don't own) are only a handful of cards, they are for looks and don't affect gameplay in any way. The downstream expansion while nice is in no way essential in my mind either. You have a beautifully produced and complete experience with just the very affordable retail box! I see this going around for 20-30$ NIS which feels like a steal to me.
Alexandre Dubuc
@Bigroux
You have a beautifully produced and complete experience with just the very affordable retail box! I see this going around for 20-30$ NIS which feels like a steal to me.
Fully agree - I love the artwork and I enjoy a relaxing game solo.

The promos are just a few extra cards that add to the decks. Nice to have, but since they don't add any new mechanics or gameplay you won't miss them if you don't have them - you have a ton of cards in the base game already !

Downstream does add a couple of mechanics and scoring opportunities, but at the cost of some fiddlyness. Meadow isn't one of those half-done base games that you need to buy the expansion to complete it !

In padurea cu alune, aveau casa 2 bursuci, vine pupaza si spune... @BoardGameColors [Romanian Review]: Toți visam la plimbări lungi prin natura, în care sa vedem peisaje impresionante, sa cream amintiri frumoase și sa întâlnim animale sălbatice. Nu chiar orice animal sălbatic, cu toate ca o întâlnire nas în nas cu Moș Martin ar creea cu siguranță niste amintiri memorabile, însă nu prea văd pe nimeni sa își dorească asta. Cred ca acesta este și motivul pentru care în Meadow nu vom întâlni niciun urs, cel puțin nu în jocul de baza. În general, animalele alese sunt mai puțin periculoase, cu câteva excepții.

In Meadow vom lua rucsacul în spinare, vom lăsa asfaltul în urma și o vom lua la pas pe poteci mai puțin umblate. Vom vizita păduri, câmpii, poienite, sate în căutarea naturii pe care am pierdut-o stand la oraș. Obiectivul nostru este să observam cât mai mult din fauna și flora locală dar să ne si alegem cu amintiri frumoase, poate și câteva suveniruri. După toate aceste plimbări lungi ne putem odihni în față unui foc de tabără și sa povestim celorlalți jucători ce am reușit sa vedem și ce obiective am îndeplinit.



CUM SE JOACĂ


Meadow se desfășoară pe parcursul a 6 runde în cazul în care se joacă in 2-3 jucători și 8 runde în cazul unui joc cu 4 jucători.

In timpul turei tale trebuie să efectuezi o acțiune, plasând jetonul cu traseu într-un locas liber de pe:

Planșa principală, luând cărți din display-ul comun și, opțional, jucând o carte în zona de pajiște sau împrejurimi;

Planșa cu foc de tabără, efectuând astfel una dintre acțiunile speciale și optional, îndeplinind un obiectiv.

O runda durează până cand toti jucatorii si-au folosit toate jetoanele, iar jocul se termina dupa finalizarea ultimei runde.



DESFĂȘURAREA JOCULUI


In functie de numărul de jucatori, jocul se desfășoară pe un anumit număr de ture. Pe tura sa, fiecare va putea sa facă 5 acțiuni, pentru fiecare folosindu-se unul dintre jetoanele traseu disponibile.

Obiectivul jucătorilor va fi sa creeze în față lor un tablou de carti cât mai mare, care să scoreze cât mai multe puncte la finalul jocului. Pe tura sa jucătorul poate lua cărți de pe tabla comuna de joc și le poate plasa în fata sa dacă îndeplineste cerințele. Fiecare carte va scora un număr de puncte si, pentru a o așeza, aceasta va avea câteva cerințe foarte strâns legate de cele din natura sau din viata reala. De exemplu pentru a pune jos cartea pupăză vei avea nevoie ca în habitatul respectiv sa ai viermișori sau gândaci, astfel ca pasarea sa aibă cu ce sa se hrănească. Atunci când pui jos o carte nouă, va trebui sa acoperi simbolurile existente, astfel ca atunci când creezi habitatele va trebui sa urci în lanțul trofic, cărțile mai avansate generând și mai multe puncte de victorie la final.



In fata ta vei putea așeza maxim 10 cărți de tip habitat, pe care se vor construi seturile de cărți.

Teancurile de cărți sunt în număr de 4, reprezentând cele 4 puncte cardinale. În teancul reprezentând Estul vor fi doar cărți habitat, cele de la care pornești în crearea seturilor, iar pe măsură ce jocul avansează, va fi introdus teancul Nord, care conține cărți cu cerințe mai complicate dar care scoreaza mai multe puncte.



Ne-a placut modul în care folosești jetoanele traseu și alegi acțiunea pe care o vei face pe tura ta. Acestea au o dubla întrebuințare, pot fi folosite atât pentru a lua cărți de pe tabla comuna cât si pentru a fi așezate în jurul focului de tabără pentru o acțiune speciala.

Fiecare jeton este împărțit în 2 secțiuni. Secțiunea de sus este numerotata cu un număr de la 1 la 4, al 5-lea jeton având simbolul “?”, acesta fiind wild, putând înlocui oricare dintre cele 4 numere. În partea de jos ele prezinta un simbol care reprezintă una dintre cele 4 acțiuni care pot fi făcute la focul de tabără.



Utilizând partea de sus a jetonului vei putea alege o carte de pe tabla comuna, în funcție de locul unde îl poziționezi pe marginea ei și de numărul inscripționat pe jeton.

Aici este evidențiată destul de mult interacțiunea dintre jucători. Zonele de pe marginea tablei de joc sunt limitate, iar alegerea locului unde te poziționezi trebuie bine aleasa, întotdeauna pe tabla vor fi mai multe cărți pe care ți le dorești. Va trebui să îți construiești bine strategia și să știi să prioritizezi cărțile mai importante și care te pot ajuta mai mult pe moment.



In afara de regulament, vom găsi o carte în cutia jocului. Aceasta este o lista cu toate cărțile din joc, fiecare dintre ele avand o descriere și numele științific în cazul animalelor și al plantelor. Când rasfoiam cartea am fost uimit sa descopăr ca în cărțile cu parcuri naționale (sunt într-unul dintre plicurile speciale) găsim și Parcul Național Cheile Nerei din România. De asemenea țara noastră mai este menționată și la cartea Zimbru. De curiozitate am comparat descrierile din cartea jocului localizat cu cea în engleza și am văzut ca la cărțile respective, este menționată Polonia în locul României. Mi se pare un gest frumos făcut de cei care au tradus jocul prin includerea țării noastre în descrierea cărților.



Ne-a placut foarte mult modul prin care este ales primul jucător, nominalizarea făcându-se destul de amuzant, primul jucător fiind ultima persoana de la masa intepata de o albină. Un alt lucru destul de interactiv care aduce și un pic de mister în joc, dar care te face și sa vrei sa ieși în natura sunt cele 5 plicuri, fiecare conținând câte 6 cărți tematice care pot fi adăugate celor din joc. Ca să te poți uita în aceste plicuri ar trebui să îndeplinești anumite condiții: să vizitezi un parc național, să vezi un animal sălbatic în pădure, în prima zi a primăverii sau plicul tematic de Crăciun care se deschide în seara de 24 decembrie. Fiecare dintre ele încearcă să facă legătura între jocul fizic, natura și evenimente din viata noastră, indemnandu-ne, în același timp, la o plimbare prin pădure dar și să scoți jocul pe masă când îndeplinești una dintre condiții. Noi am desfăcut câteva plicuri când am indeplinit cerințele, dar curiozitatea ne-a împins și le-am deschis și pe celelalte pentru a vedea ce se ascunde acolo. În afara de animale, peisaje, plante, ilustrații noi, unul dintre plicuri va introduce în joc și simbolul cerb, care are reguli proprii în timpul jocului.



ARTA SI COMPONENTE


In joc sunt 184 de carti și, în afara de cele cu habitatele de pornire, fiecare carte are o ilustrație unică, aceste fiind foarte frumos ilustrate inspirandu-ti liniștea unei zile senine în natura. Jocul este foarte frumos colorat, ilustrațiile sunt făcute cu o foarte mare atentie la detalii și sunt prezente peste tot, începând de la cutia jocului pana la cele mai simple token-uri.

Componentele sunt de carton, singurul token de lemn fiind cel care indica runda. Holder ele de carti sunt construite din carton, dând un aspect plăcut și 3D zonei de joc.



Jocul este tradus în limba romana de Asmodee Romania. Cu toate ca nu are text pe carti, este independent lingvistic, regulamentul va fi mai ușor de parcurs de cei de nu cunosc atât de bine limba engleză. De asemenea cartea cu descrierea cărților merita parcursa pentru a afla diferite lucruri despre animalele și plantele ilustrate pe cărțile de joc.



CONCLUZII

Ne-a placut foarte mult ca jocul are o rejucabilitate mare. Nu te vei plictisi, acesta venind cu un număr impresionant de cărți, fiecare cu propriile cerințe. De asemena obiectivele din jurul focului de tabără vor fi mereu aleatorii și așezate diferit, fiind în total 11 dar nefolosindu-se toate.

Am jucat jocul în 2, 3 si 4 jucători. Toate jocurile au decurs bine, nu putem spune ca în 3 sau 4 jocul nu funcționează bine, totul merge ca uns, doar tabla de joc se aglomerează mai repede, vei fi nevoit sa așezi destul de multe jetoane în jurul focului de tabără. Cel mai mult ne-a plăcut în 2 jucători, jocul fiind mai rapid și putând avea posibilitatea sa iei mult mai multe cărți și sa le așezi în zona ta de joc, creând astfel habitate mai lungi. Chiar dacă este un joc care merge bine în orice număr de jucători, îl recomandam cu căldura în special ca joc pentru 2 jucători. De asemenea jocul are și un mod solo, dar pe acesta nu l-am încercat.



Am fost încântați și de sentimentul de liniște și pace pe care cărțile de joc ți-l inspira, fiecare dintre ele fiind ca un tablou ce reflecta un spațiu de vis. Un lucru care ne-a apropiat și mai mult de joc este ca peisajele și animalele prezente sunt din zona noastră geografica, totul fiind mai familiar.

Toate astea fac din Meadow unul dintre jocurile noastre preferate, unul dintre jocurile pe care le iubim, îl recomandam mereu cu placere și pe care suntem dispuși sa il jucam oricând și cu oricine, fie expert în board games sau proaspăt întrat în hobby.

RATING: 9 /10

Multumim @asmodeeromania pentru review copy.

Pentru mai mult content ne puteti vizita profilul de instagram: BoardGameColors
Wonderful pictures!
Thank you really apreciate it!

Meadow Im Reich der Natur, durch Bordspelwereld [DE]: In Meadow machen sich die Spieler auf, um die örtliche Fauna und Flora zu erkunden. Indem man so viele Tiere, Pflanzen und Landschaften wie möglich entdeckt und Gegenstände sammelt, kann man der beste Späher der Gruppe werden. Auch abends am Lagerfeuer kann man mit dem, was man tagsüber entdeckt hat, Punkte sammeln.

Das Spiel läuft in mehreren Runden oder Wanderungen ab. In jeder Runde hast du eine Reihe von Wanderplättchen zur Verfügung, die du jeweils einmal pro Runde einsetzen kannst. Für jedes Wanderplättchen gibt es 2 Möglichkeiten: eine Aktion auf dem zentralen Brett oder eine Aktion auf dem Lagerfeuerbrett. Ihr habt also 4 (bei 4 Spielern) bzw. 5 (bei 1, 2 oder 3 Spielern) Aktionen während jeder Wanderung. Die Runde ist zu Ende, wenn alle Spieler alle ihre Laufplättchen auf einem der beiden Bretter haben. Dann nehmen alle Spieler ihre Geh-Plättchen zurück und bereiten sich auf die nächste Runde vor. Das Spiel endet nach 6 (bei 2 oder 3 Spielern) oder 8 Runden (bei 4 Spielern). Alle Punkte auf der eigenen Wiese, in der Umgebung und im Lagerfeuerbereich werden zusammengezählt. Der Spieler mit den meisten Punkten ist der beste Späher der Gruppe und gewinnt das Spiel.

Wenn du eine Aktion auf dem zentralen Spielplan wählst, legst du eines deiner Laufplättchen mit dem Pfeil in eine der Aussparungen am Rand des Spielplans und nimmst die entsprechende Karte. Die Karten haben am unteren Rand ein Landschaftssymbol oder eine Punktzahl. Oben auf den Karten stehen ein oder mehrere Natursymbole und in kleiner Schrift die Bedingungen, die man braucht, um diese Karte zu spielen. Nachdem du eine Karte vom zentralen Spielbrett genommen hast, darfst du eine Karte aus deiner Hand auf deiner Wiese oder in deiner Umgebung ausspielen. Das Ausspielen einer Karte erfolgt nach den Regeln im sehr übersichtlichen Regelbuch. Die vertikal ausgerichteten Boden- und Beobachtungskarten spielst du auf deine Wiese, die horizontal ausgerichteten Landschafts- und Erkundungskarten bilden deine Umgebung. Gespielte Karten dürfen anschließend nicht mehr verschoben werden.

Wählst du eine Aktion auf dem Lagerfeuerbrett, legst du eines deiner Laufplättchen mit der Pfeilrückseite in eine der Vertiefungen am Rand des Brettes und führst die entsprechende Aktion aus. Mögliche Aktionen sind: 1. eine beliebige Karte vom zentralen Brett nehmen, 2. 2 Wegeplättchen nehmen (die man zum Erkunden von Landschaften braucht), 3. die obersten 3 Karten von einem Stapel nehmen und 1 behalten und 4. 2 Karten aus der Hand spielen. Nachdem du eine dieser Lageraktionen durchgeführt hast, darfst du keine Karten mehr aus deiner Hand ausspielen. Auf dem Wanderplättchen mit dem Fragezeichen wählst du, welche Aktion du durchführen möchtest. Nach der Lagerfeuer-Aktion darfst du eine Mission erfüllen, wenn du die richtigen Symbole auf deiner Wiese hast.

Das Spiel enthält auch einige kleine Umschläge mit einem Buchstaben darauf. Diese Umschläge enthalten thematische Karten und sind eigentlich kleine unabhängige Erweiterungen zum Grundspiel. Die Themen sind: Nationalparks, beeindruckende Begegnungen, eine einzigartige Begegnung, Frühling und Frohe Weihnachten. Das Spiel hat auch eine Solo-Variante. Auf der Rückseite der Spielregel befindet sich noch eine schöne Übersicht, die zeigt, welche Symbole in welchem Verhältnis in welchen Nachziehstapeln vorkommen. Das kann nützlich sein, wenn man ein paar Wahrscheinlichkeitsberechnungen anstellen möchte. Ein weiteres nettes Extra: Die Schachtel enthält auch eine Karteikarte: Jede Karte gibt etwas mehr Informationen über das Tier oder die Pflanze auf der Karte.

Meine Meinung?
Meadow ist ein sehr guter Engine-Builder! Du beginnst mit nur zwei Startkarten auf deiner Wiese, aber diese Wiese wird nach und nach um weitere Bodenarten erweitert, jede mit ihrer eigenen Fauna und Flora. Du wählst aus, ob du vor allem viele Tiere und Pflanzen beobachten willst oder ob du lieber neue Landschaften mit dazugehörigen Entdeckungen erkunden willst. Oder eine Mischung aus beidem, versteht sich! Das Spiel hat einen sehr schönen Mechanismus, um Karten auf deiner Wiese auszuspielen. Du kannst jede Karte nur ausspielen, wenn du die Bedingungen erfüllst, d.h. wenn du die richtigen Bedingungssymbole sichtbar hast. Indem man die Karte ausspielt, deckt man aber auch gleich eines der sichtbaren Symbole ab, so dass es nicht mehr für das Ausspielen einer weiteren Karte zur Verfügung steht. Dies und die Tatsache, dass man in jedem Spiel andere Karten an einem anderen Ort und zu einer anderen Zeit zur Verfügung hat, sorgt dafür, dass das Spiel auch jedes Mal anders ist.

Neben dem Thema war es die Grafik, die mich in erster Linie zu diesem Spiel hingezogen hat. Karolina Kijak hat jede Karte in diesem Spiel in ein wahnsinnig schönes Kunstwerk verwandelt! Es lohnt sich wirklich, die verschiedenen Karten genauer anzuschauen und jedem kleinen Druck die Aufmerksamkeit zu schenken, die er verdient. So schön! Das, zusammen mit der Spielmechanik, macht es für mich wirklich zu einem Top-Spiel!


Bewertung für Bordspelwereld durch: Tine Dillen (Oekedoeleke),
Zuvor gepostet auf: 22-10-2023, mit einer Bewertung von: 9/10 Sterne
Link zu dieser Bewertung: https://www.bordspelwereld.nl/de/bewertungen/neueste-bewertu...

Diese deutsche Übersetzung wurde aus dem Niederländischen von DeepL erstellt. Wir denken, dass sie nicht 100% perfekt ist. Wenn Sie etwas verbessern können, lassen Sie es uns bitte wissen. Vielen Dank dafür!

Meadow, by Bordspelwereld [EN]: In Meadow, players set out to explore the local fauna and flora. By discovering as many animals, plants and landscapes as possible and by collecting objects, you may become the best spotter of the group. You can also earn points around the campfire in the evening with what you discovered during the day.

The game takes place in several rounds or walks. During each round you have a number of walking tokens available, each of which you can use once per round. Each walking token has 2 options to choose from: an action on the central board or an action on the campfire board. So during each walk you have 4 (with 4 players) or 5 (with 1, 2 or 3 players) actions. The round is over when all players have placed all their walking tokens on one of the two boards. Everyone then takes back all their walking tokens and preparations for the next round are made. The game ends after 6 (with 2 or 3 players) or 8 rounds (with 4 players). All points in your meadow, your surroundings and the campfire area are added up. The player with the most points is the best spotter of the group and wins the game.

If you choose an action on the central board, place one of your walking tokens with the arrow in one of the recesses on the edge of that board and take the corresponding card. Cards have a landscape symbol or a score at the bottom. At the top of the cards are one or more nature symbols and in small format the conditions you need to play this card. After taking a card from the central board, you may play a card from your hand in your meadow or in your area. You play a card according to the rules in the very clear rule book. You play the vertically oriented soil and observation cards in your meadow, the horizontally oriented landscape and discovery cards form your environment. Played cards may not be moved afterwards.

If you choose an action on the campfire board, place one of your walking tokens with the back of the arrow in one of the recesses on the edge of that board and perform the corresponding action. Possible actions are: 1. take any card from the central board, 2. take 2 route tiles (which you need to discover landscapes), 3. take the top 3 cards from 1 pile and keep 1 and 4. play 2 cards from your hand. After performing one of these campfire actions, you may no longer play a card from your hand. At the walking token with the question mark you choose which action you want to perform. After you have performed the campfire action, you may complete an assignment if you have the correct symbols in your meadow.

The game also comes with some small envelopes with a letter on them. These envelopes contain themed cards and are essentially small independent expansions to the base game. The themes are: national parks, impressive encounters, a unique encounter, spring and a Merry Christmas. The game also has a solo variant. At the back of the rules there is a nice overview of which symbols appear in which draw piles in which proportion. This can be useful if you want to do some probability calculation. Another nice extra: the box also contains a card index: each card provides some more information about the animal or plant on the card.

My opinion?
Meadow is a very nice engine builder! You start with barely 2 starting cards in your meadow, but that meadow systematically expands to more soil types, each with their own fauna and flora that thrives there. You choose whether you want to observe many animals and plants or whether you prefer to explore new landscapes and the associated discoveries. Or a mix of both of course! The game has a very nice mechanism for playing cards in your meadow. You can only play each card if you meet the conditions, in other words if you have the correct condition symbols visible. But by actually playing the card, you also immediately cover one of those visible symbols so that it is no longer available to play the next card. This, together with the fact that you have different cards available in each game at a different place and time, ensures that the game is different every time.

The artwork, in addition to the theme, was what initially attracted me to this game. Karolina Kijak turned every card in this game into an incredibly beautiful artistic gem! It is really worth taking a look at the different cards and giving each picture the attention it deserves. So beautiful! This, together with the game mechanics, really makes it a top game for me!


Review for Bordspelwereld by: Tine Dillen (Oekedoeleke),
Published on 22-10-2023, with a rating of 9/10 stars
Link to review: https://www.bordspelwereld.nl/en/en-reviews/meadow

Meadow, door Bordspelwereld [NL]: In Meadow gaan de spelers op pad om de lokale fauna en flora te verkennen. Door zoveel mogelijk dieren, planten en landschappen te ontdekken en door objecten te verzamelen, word jij misschien de beste spotter van de groep. Ook ’s avonds rond het kampvuur vallen er punten te verdienen met wat je overdag allemaal ontdekte.

Het spel verloopt in verschillende rondes of wandelingen. Tijdens elke ronde heb je een aantal wandelfiches ter beschikking die je elk 1 keer per ronde kan gebruiken. Elke wandelfiche heeft 2 opties waaruit je kan kiezen: een actie op het centrale bord of een actie op het kampvuurbord. Je hebt dus tijdens elke wandeling 4 (bij 4 spelers) of 5 (bij 1, 2 of 3 spelers) acties. De ronde is voorbij wanneer alle spelers al hun wandelfiches aan één van beide borden hebben liggen. Iedereen neemt dan al zijn wandelfiches terug en de voorbereidingen voor de volgende ronde worden getroffen. Het spel eindigt na 6 (bij 2 of 3 spelers) of 8 rondes (bij 4 spelers). Alle punten in je weide, je omgeving en het kampvuurterrein worden opgeteld. De speler met de meeste punten is de beste spotter van de groep en wint het spel.

Kies je voor een actie op het centrale bord, dan leg je één van je wandelfiches met de pijl in één van de uitsparingen aan de rand van dat bord en neem je de bijhorende kaart. Kaarten hebben onderaan een landschapssymbool of een score staan. Bovenaan de kaarten staan één of meer natuursymbolen en in het klein de voorwaarden die je nodig hebt om deze kaart te mogen spelen. Na het nemen van een kaart van het centrale bord, mag je een kaart uit je hand spelen in je weide of in je omgeving. Een kaart spelen doe je volgens de regels uit het heel duidelijke regelboek. De verticaal georiënteerde bodem- en observatiekaarten speel je in je weide, de horizontaal georiënteerde landschaps- en ontdekkingskaarten vormen je omgeving. Gespeelde kaarten mogen nadien niet meer verplaatst worden.

Kies je voor een actie op het kampvuurbord, dan leg je één van je wandelfiches met de achterkant van de pijl in één van de uitsparingen aan de rand van dat bord en voer je de bijhorende actie uit. Mogelijk acties zijn: 1. neem een willekeurige kaart van het centrale bord, 2. neem 2 routetegels (die je nodig hebt om landschappen te ontdekken), 3. neem de bovenste 3 kaarten van 1 stapel en houd er 1 en 4. speel 2 kaarten uit je hand. Na het uitvoeren van één van deze kampvuuracties mag je géén kaart meer uit je hand spelen. Bij de wandelfiche met het vraagteken kies je zelf welke actie je wil uitvoeren. Nadat je de kampvuuractie hebt uitgevoerd mag je wel een opdracht volbrengen wanneer je de juiste symbolen in je weide hebt liggen.

Bij het spel zitten ook nog enkele kleine enveloppen met een letter er op. Deze enveloppen bevatten thematische kaarten en zijn eigenlijk kleine onafhankelijke uitbreidingen op het basisspel. De thema’s zijn: nationale parken, indrukwekkende ontmoetingen, een unieke ontmoeting, de lente en prettig kerstfeest. Het spel heeft ook een solovariant. Achteraan op de spelregels staat nog een mooi overzicht met welke symbolen in welke verhouding in welke trekstapels voorkomt. Dit kan handig zijn als je wat aan kansberekening wil doen. Nog een leuk extraatje: in de doos zit ook nog een kaartenregister: over elke kaart wordt wat meer info gegeven over het dier of de plant die op de kaart staat.

Mijn mening?
Meadow is een heel fijne engine-builder! Je begint met amper 2 startkaarten in je weide maar die weide breidt zich stelselmatig uit naar meer bodemtypes met elk hun eigen fauna en flora die daar gedijt. Je kiest zelf of je vooral veel dieren en planten wil observeren óf dat je liever nieuwe landschappen verkent met de bijhorende ontdekkingen. Of een mix van beiden uiteraard! Het spel heeft een heel fijn mechanisme om kaarten te kunnen uitspelen in je weide. Elke kaart kan je enkel spelen als je voldoet aan de voorwaarden, met andere woorden als je de juiste voorwaardesymbolen zichtbaar hebt. Maar door de kaart dan effectief te spelen, bedek je ook meteen één van die zichtbare symbolen zodat dit niet meer beschikbaar is om een volgende kaart te spelen. Dit zorgt ervoor, samen met het feit dat je in elk spel andere kaarten op een andere plaats en moment ter beschikking hebt, dat het spel ook telkens weer anders is.
Het artwork was, naast het thema, datgene wat mij in eerste instantie enorm aantrok tot dit spel. Karolina Kijak maakte van elk kaartje in dit spel een waanzinnig mooi artistiek juweeltje! Het is echt de moeite om de verschillende kaartjes eens rustig te bekijken en elk prentje de aandacht te geven dat het verdient. Zo mooi! Dit, samen met het spelmechanisme, maakt het voor mij echt een topspel!


Review voor Bordspelwereld door: Tine Dillen (Oekedoeleke),
Eerder geplaatst op: 22-10-2023, met een waardering van: 9/10 sterren
https://www.bordspelwereld.nl/nl/reviews-nl/nieuwste-reviews...

Solo Review of Meadow: This review originally appeared with full formatting and photographs on the Solitary Quest Blog on 11/29/2023. Read the full review here.


Immerse yourself in the tranquil sights of nature. Wander and release in the calmness and beauty of the world. In this review of Meadow, I discuss what makes a game "cozy" and explain why this game may be better suited to higher player counts.



The Gist: Wander and Observe

Have you ever wanted to score points just for finding neat things outside? In Meadow players are wanderers, jaunting through nature taking account of the places they are visiting and the animals and objects they encounter. Collecting cards from a central board and playing them into their meadow, players build a tableau of all the interesting things they see while walking the countryside. Players earn points the more cards they collect and the more stories of their exploits they share around the campfire.

Gameplay: Collect from the Ground Up

Meadow is a card drafting and tableau building game in which players are taking turns selecting cards and playing them into their play areas. The shared card pool from which each player may draft cards is separated into four rows replenished by different decks—West, East, and two rows from the South deck. A fourth deck, North, replaces the South deck halfway through the game. Each deck primarily contains different card types, ensuring that there are always diverse card options on the main board for players to choose from. There will always be 16 cards from which players may choose.





On their turns, players take one of their five path tokens and place it on an open space on either the main board or the campfire board. Played to the main board, the token allows the player to take the card in the row it was placed in a number of spaces onto the board equal to the number on the token. The player can then play one card from their hand to their meadow, as long as the card’s suit requirements are met by cards already in the meadow. The resulting tableau of different card types—ground, observation, landscape, and discovery—form the unique ecosystem observed by that player. By picking up and playing cards with different symbols, players will expand the diversity of card suits in their meadow, allowing them to ramp-up towards playing cards with more complex suit requirements and higher point values.

Played to the campfire board, path tokens allow players to take the special action specified on each unique path token. Special actions can help replenish a players’ dwindling hand or acquire more road tokens which are part of the requirement cost of certain cards. Playing a path token to the campfire spot also lets players score additional points if they have symbols showing in their meadow that match pairs of bonus tokens around the campfire board that are determined before the game. So while most of the time players use their turns to play path tokens to the board in order to take and play cards, sometimes a timely path token on the campfire board can result in a quick point boost or jumpstart a stagnant tableau.

A game of Meadow lasts a number of rounds depending on the player count, tracked by the iconic Wanderer meeple trekking around the campfire board. At the end of the game, players tally points scored in their meadow and from objectives scored on the campfire board. The highest score wins.



Solo: Rover

Meadow boasts a solo variant where the player is up against an automa named Rover. Just like the player, Rover relies on the path tokens to determine what action he will take each turn. The player shuffles all the unused path tokens from the other colors into a facedown pile. On Rover’s turn, the player draws one path token randomly from the pile and plays it to the corresponding, color-matched notch on the game board, helpfully guided by the solo play game token. Rover takes a card to his pile just like any player would. Wildcard path tokens are placed into an empty notch in the campfire board but do not grant Rover any additional boons.

Rover will always go first, but otherwise does not benefit from any other bonuses, like access to bonus tokens. Instead of manicuring his own meadow, all of Rover’s cards end up in a single stack that is tallied at the end of the game and compared to the point total of the player. If the player scores higher than Rover, they proceed to check their score on the solo scoring table that will tell them whether “(they) were distracted” or “(their) collection is worth displaying.”



Thoughts: Light Equals Cozy?

Meadow is frequently described as one of the top cozy board games, like in this article from GamesHub or this episode of Shut Up & Sit Down. I can see why. The artwork puts the tranquility of nature on full display, featuring brilliant scenes of rural landscapes and an exhibition of creatures from mere worms to apex predators. Karolina Kijak’s watercolors invite the players into the gentle scenes. Similarly, the concept of the game lends Meadow a more comforting feel. It is a nature game not about collecting, harvesting, or manipulating nature. Players are not destroying anything, hunting or killing, capturing wildlife or settling ecosystems. They are just observing, going for a walk.

And the coziness of the game is not just reflected in its artwork, but is conveyed in the gameplay as well. Meadow is a light strategy game that will not demand a great deal of cross referencing the rulebook. Taking a turn is as simple as choosing which notch to place a path token to. The narrow selection of potential play options each turn means the strategy of Meadow is in the selection of which card to take, and which one to play rather than the complexity of the gameplay itself. This means that the game should be rather quick to learn, and not too cerebral.



But those two elements—theme and gameplay—have a somewhat flat connection to one another. Although the concept of trekking through tranquil nature is well-conveyed in the artwork and component design, the mechanics of the game are not really influenced by the theme. During gameplay, it was simpler to look past the theme to focus on the symbols I needed to acquire rather than attending to the brilliant landscapes and wildlife depicted on the cards. The turn action and format of the tableau players are building would have worked just as well if they were reskinned for an outer space exploration game, for instance, with players traveling to and seeing different planets, the nature symbols replaced by galaxy symbols, and the campfire board replaced by a spaceship board. Once you start playing, the nature theme just feels like a beautiful coat of paint splattered on to a totally independent game engine configuration.

This is not to say that that game engine is not remarkable; Meadow features some very intelligent mechanics balancing the gameplay. For instance, the two scoring avenues—the tableau and campfire board bonuses—are well weighted against one another given how often each is played to, and scoring generally is not too swingy. The use of four separate decks, each with their own distribution of card types and symbols, to fuel the shared card pool ensures a plentiful availability of card types and symbols to all players and prevents players from successfully pursuing an annoying strategy of choking resources. The deck rotation halfway through the game also adds some pacing to the game, and makes setting up a diverse tableau of card symbols before the late game (where cards require a lot more visible symbols to play) critical to scoring a lot of points in the meadow. And players can interact with one another and thwart opponents’ strategies by blocking key notches on the main board and campfire board without this being a “gotchya” kind of game.

Thoughts: Is Solo Play Too Easy?

In my last review of Expeditions from Stonemaier Games, I wrote about the importance of variability in solo variant automas. Facing a mechanized opponent, solitary gamers should have some say in how difficult the game ought to be, whether they are looking for an easy win or a near impossible challenge. Variability in a solo variant automa is a huge reason why gamers will return to a game time and again, to experience new and increasingly difficult challenges. Meadow’s automa does not have a variable difficulty setting and unfortunately Rover is just way too easy to beat every time.

The solo player and Rover will encounter approximately the same number of cards throughout the game and while the player has the added task of arranging a functional tableau, all the cards Rover acquires go right into a stack to be scored at the end of the game. But the player has a significant advantage over Rover in that they can make intelligent decisions based on the current board state, selecting higher valued cards and taking special actions to increase their card pool and the number of cards they can play to the meadow. All of Rover’s selections, however, are random. This means he’s not going to be selecting the cards that will have the greatest point scoring return. For example, Rover will continuously pick up ground cards that score no points, even in the late game when the player is capable of playing more complex and higher value cards almost every turn. Because they are more or less drawing the same number of cards, this presents a significant scoring advantage to the player. And with access to campfire board bonuses that Rover cannot utilize, the player should usually have no trouble ending the game with a higher score than the automa.

Unfortunately this renders Rover a somewhat idle participant in the solo game. And since the placement of his path tokens is fixed by the solo play game token, he also cannot strategically block the player from taking a decisive action by placing a path token in an ideal spot. This can make it feel like the player is just going through the motions of playing the game, taking what cards they are given in the drafting area to try to beat their own high score. Without a scalable difficulty or options for new challenges, there is not much seducing a solo player to come back for more.



Final Thoughts: A 2-Player Staple

A lot of games that are considered cozy and comforting aim to immerse the players into the theme and world of the game, providing an outlet from the fraught real world. This is a classic form of escapism that is at the center of many board games. Immersion in Meadow is encouraged with light play, vibrant art, and a coherent message that nature, including its beautiful landscapes and diverse wildlife, is something to be appreciated, enjoyed in conservation and respect. But once the game begins, that immersion seems abstract from the gameplay itself.

Meadow is a very enjoyable multiplayer game, and is balanced especially well at two players. This is ideal for a quiet evening; light a candle, open a window and let in the sounds of nature. You don’t even have to leave your home to wander the wilderness and see something beautiful.

This review originally appeared with full formatting and photographs on the Solitary Quest Blog on 11/29/2023. Read the full review here.

Meadow Review: Meadow is an educational an beautiful ramble through the countryside. It is the sort of game where you start to forget about points because you want to play a newt because it is just so cute and you must have it.

Meadow has a central tableau of cards laid out in a 4 by 4 grid. Each turn you select one card by placing one of your small wooden marker around the central tableau. The wooden markers have numbers on them to reflect which card in a row or column you are selecting. So I could choose Row 1 and place Marker 1 on the left side. Or I could choose Column 1 and place Marker 4 down the bottom or I could choose Row 1 and place Marker 4 on the right side and they would all choose the same card. This means you have a lot of flexibility in what cards you select however as the round goes on and you place more markers your flexibility decreases but you generally have a couple of options of cards you can take.

You can also place your markers around the campfire instead to use different special abilities but these abilities are not as good as taking a card from the meadow. In a 3-4 player game meadow spots will run out and you will need to use these as backup. In a 2 player game they are not used much aside from getting more landscape tokens. We have felt that the campfire board is all a bit of a waste of time unfortunately but it would be interesting to try it out with 4 players.

The general gameplay reminds me a bit of Everdell in having a large selection of cards that everyone can choose from. You can plan ahead but you never know when another player might take your desired card or alternatively place their marker in a spot you wanted to place a marker and you might need to choose a different marker to get the same card.

Once you have got a card you can then play them to your own slowly building meadow ecosystem. Each card has a requirement symbol based on what that creature requires. For example to play a Lizard you might need a Beetle card. It basically forms a food chain with cards higher up the food chain often being worth a few more points.

Number of players
You can play with 1-4 players. Playing with more people will increase downtime and the competition for spaces a bit. Each turn is pretty quick but you can get stuck in analysis paralysis looking at sequences of cards to play and your available markers.

Complexity
It is pretty easy to learn the rules for Meadow. Reading the rulebook I found somethings a bit hard to understand but actually demonstrating with the tokens and cards was pretty straight forward. On the whole it is a fairly light game. I feel similar to Wingspan more than Everdell.

Artwork
The gameplay itself is alright but what really makes Meadow stand out is the artwork. All of its many cards have unique and beautiful artwork. This game is really a joy to look at. The game does an excellent job of taking everyday creatures and transforming them in cute and delightful works of art.

Skill vs Luck
There is not much Luck involved with Meadow. You always have a large range of cards of cards to select from and each deck tend to have similar card icons in it. Still you might play a card hoping to get a Beetle card and then no Beetle card gets played into the meadow which can be annoying. You can always discard cards to ignore some requirements but discarding cards is a steep cost.

All of our games of Meadow have been pretty close as most cards have similar point values and everyone can generally play the same number of cards throughout the game. So you never really feel particularly far behind or in front. This is the sort of game that a player who is skilled at looking ahead and considering how different cards can be played in sequence will probably win.

Replayability
There are some 200 unique cards so there is a lot of different options for how you can build a food chain. However although the artwork on the cards is unique a lot of the cards do similar things. Invertebrates eat plants. Reptiles and Birds eat Invertebrates. Mammals eat Reptiles and Birds. etc. Your Meadow will always look different but the mechanism is pretty similar. There is not a lot of depth to the strategy. It is mostly this card requires this other card so I will take that other card and play it on top. I think if the game didn't have the amazing artwork and theme you might lose interest in it after a few plays.

Educational
Meadow is a very educational game. It even comes with a rule book explaining cool facts about all of the cards included. If you want to learn about food chains and ecosystems this is a great way to do it. It really show how complex food chains can be and how many different creatures can all be tied together and reliant upon each other.

Family Friendly
Meadow has such a gentle heart and sweet spirit that it is easy to forget all the creatures you are playing are actually eating each other. This is definitely a great game to play with kids and with a few simple house rules you could play it with even very young children who will likely love the pictures if nothing else.

Secret Envelopes
A really cool thing Meadow has done is locked some of its cards away inside envelopes which can only be opened once certain triggers are reached. For example the first day of Spring. This is an excellent was to slowly introduce new content over time and keep the game fresh in the long run. I would love to see more games do this.

Pros
-Gorgeous artwork
-Low interaction
-Educational and family friendly

Cons
-Not as much depth as say Everdell
-Campfire actions are just not as good as Meadow actions despite being a seemingly large portion of the game. Might be a bit different at higher player counts.

You should buy this if
-You like cute animals
-You like going for walks in nature
-You like biology
-You want a really pretty game
Very well said! I would add that my one solo play was not as interesting as multi-player, and I have a lot of other games I like solo so will be playing this multi-player.
Also, the Campfire action is included for the 4 player game when all the action slots may be filled up, or in a niche case, you just don't want to see another card drawn for another player.

Meadow - a two player review: Meadow from @rebelstudio.eu is an absolutely gorgeous tableau building game that has you wandering through nature, enjoying all of its splendour. As you travel through the countryside, you document your wanderings by collecting cards showing the plants and animals that you see. Each card you collect gives you victory points and whoever has the highest score at the end of the game wins.

Play takes place over a number of rounds, with players using their path tokens to either collect and play cards, or to activate special abilities. As the path tokens can be used in multiple ways, you need to carefully plan where and when to use each to get the maximum benefit from your turn.

Meadow is fairly easy to learn, but surprised us with how much depth there is on offer. The incredible visual appeal made us think this would be quite light, but in fact there are a lot of thinky moments as you work out which cards to play and where to place them in order to set up later moves.

The game comes with different boards for each player count so it played well with two players, taking about 60 minutes for early games then around 45 minutes once we were familiar with it.

We got best results when we played a wide variety of ground cards to start with, giving us more places to build on. As you place cards in your tableau, you cover an existing card, removing it from your engine, so you need to find a balance between taking cards that gain points and keeping your engine running for future turns. There is a degree of luck involved due to the meadow only refreshing once per game but you can get around this somewhat using your special tokens if you do get stuck.

While the incredible artwork draws you into Meadow, there’s also some meaty gameplay backing it up and it’s a clever puzzle that we’ve enjoyed solving. You get a real sense of satisfaction when you set up your ecosystem well and manage to pull off the win. There seems to be plenty of depth and there's also one expansion so far for it.

Originally posted to the A Tale of Two Meeples Instagram account on March 24 2023, link here
I've deliberately not got the expansion because I understand it just adds bloat and table-hog.
You are missing out on a fun expansion. It adds nicely to the base game.
Frankie95
wrote:
I agree about the depth. The scope for 'self-screwage' - accidentally covering a card that you were lining up to generate a great combo - is huge.
That's something we struggled with in our first couple of plays. Sacrificing something you worked hard to place seems counter-intuitive, so we had to fight the impulse and force ourselves to cover cards up for the greater returns, but we did end up losing track of what we were doing and got a bit frustrated when we destroyed our own plans

Frankie95
wrote:
I've deliberately not got the expansion because I understand it just adds bloat and table-hog.
Downstream is a table hog, no getting past that, but we actually liked the game better at 2p with it than without. It gives you a way to get points even if the marketplace gets a bit stale on the main board. It's a balancing act, if you focus too hard on the stream you can neglect crucial points on your tableau, but if you get it right those points plus the extra bonus actions are pretty helpful. I have a review of it I should post, will try and do it today.

Meadow Review - It's more than just pretty art: Meadow is a game that is well reviewed and well received.

And rightly so. It has that great combination of looking and playing great.

When I unboxed this game, I was greeted by beautiful components. The main attraction are the cards and they are gorgeous. But the board, the card holders and the tiles are all high quality with thick cardboard and great design. But a game isn’t good if it only has great components and looks good.



Thankfully Meadow plays great!

I’ve played this a number of times and it’s been enjoyed by almost everyone. Players enjoyed the art and some even chose cards by their looks vs their symbols. The card index is really neat. I wish they somehow had the information on the cards themselves but I know that would interfere with the art. The draft selection mechanic was great because you are limited to specific spots based on the draft tile you use. Also having to choose between the card draft or the campfire spot was delicious. When the campfire spot is open and no one has claimed the bonus seat, there isn’t much to think about. And then a player across from you, has the symbols for a bonus objective. So now do you take the campfire action in order to claim that bonus first?



One person that did not enjoy the game as much said it was too long because it felt the same the whole time. He enjoyed the game while playing but felt he would rather not play again with 4 people. To be fair, that game had 2 AP prone people and it did run long.



Overall everyone enjoyed this. They were surprised at how easy it was to learn but felt like a good strategic game. I know an expansion was released and I’m sure it will help keep the game fresh. Recommended!

The Good
+Captivating watercolor illustrations
+Fairly easy to teach
+A lot of think about and plan for (ex. covering your symbol to complete a card)
+Limited campfire spots/bonuses add to decisions
+Theme is non gamer friendly
+Seems balanced so far
+Bonus secret campaign envelopes
+Solo is pretty good

The Not So Good
-AP people will struggle with this
-Can run real long with 4 and really long with 4 AP prone
-Table hog
-Cards don’t cycle much at 2 players
-Luck can be a factor
-Spider card can freak out arachnophobes





The review copy was generously provided by Rebel Studios

Review - Meadow (Mr. & Ms. Meeple): Hi all,

We love Meadow and wrote a review about it . You can also check out this review via Instagram: Mr. & Ms. Meeple - Review Meadow.

Meadow

: Rebel Studio
: Klemens Kalicki
: Karolina Kijak
: 1-4
: 10+
: 60-90’
: Hand Management, Layering, Open Drafting & Set Collection

If you’re like us and like spending time in nature then Meadow’s theme is right up your alley. In Meadow players take on the role of wanderers observing nature in all its beauty while collecting cards featuring animals, plants and landscapes you’ve observed during your walk.

During your turn, you place a path token in one of the notches on either the main or the campfire board. Depending on the board where you’ve placed your token, you perform the top or bottom action on that token. The top action lets you take the corresponding card in the chosen row or column on the main board and play a card in your play area. If you want to perform a special action, like choosing any card from the main board, or score bonus points you place your token on the campfire board and perform the bottom action. After players have placed all their tokens, the round ends. The player who has collected the most points after 6 to 8 rounds wins the game.

Is there anything not to like about Meadow? Other than the fact that the playtime with 4 players can run a little long, there isn’t anything that comes to mind. What do we like? Meadow is a game that uses simple rules and mechanics to achieve a deeper level of strategy. This means you get a good grasp of the game’s essence from the first play and will be able to explore more strategies in future plays. Like so many games, your strategy largely depends on the available cards.

Let us assure you that there are more than enough cards to keep the game refreshing. Meadow contains more than 200 beautiful hand-painted watercolor cards that contain all kinds of symbols. We really like, that before playing a card, you’ve to make sure that all the requirement symbols on that card are visible in your play area. You cover up one of these symbols with the newly played card. This means you have to think ahead to not cover up a symbol you need for another card you want to play. The order in which you play cards is important, since each card covers up symbols but also gives you new ones. We can’t say enough good things about Meadow. Definitely a recommendation from us.

Greetings,

Mr. & Ms. Meeple
Wesley & Elke
Instagram - Mr. & Ms. Meeple

Vibrant, thematic, and visually striking, this Meadow is well worth the visit!: Review in Original Format

Overview

In Meadow you are a wanderer, traveling through nature on foot in search of inspiration and stories hidden along your path. In this nature-themed game, players will take turns drafting watercolor-illustrated cards into their hands and playing them into their personal tableau – or meadow. 

Players will build a foundation of ground cards with a variety of terrain. From there, additional observation cards can be placed directly on top, building quite literally from the ground up. In addition to constructing a meadow, players will highlight the landscapes and treasures found on the roads and share tales of their adventures around a campfire.

Gradually, each player will have built a unique collection of memories. At the end of a specific number of rounds, the game ends, and the player who has gathered the most points wins.


Review

Gameplay
Each player will start with several double-ended, arrow-shaped action tokens. These tokens are used to select actions by slotting them into either the main board (the pointed end) or the campfire board (the blunt end). The campfire actions can be used to gain road tokens, extra card plays, etc., and allow the player to tell a story at the campfire (if they have met the requirements to do so). The campfire actions are useful, but players will most often be using the pointed end of their token to draft and play cards from the main board. 

Everybody’s meadow starts with a single starter ground card, representing an ecosystem. This and other ground cards are the baselines for future plays. Observation cards are drafted from the main board and can be played to your meadow if their symbol requirements are met, and often must be placed directly on top of a card displaying at least one of their required symbols. By playing cards in the meadow, symbols are covered and are no longer active, so players must manage their card plays very carefully.

In addition to building up your meadow, you will have the chance to collect road tokens and play landscape cards and discovery cards, which represent the views and mementos the player gathered on their journey. Finally, there is a bit of a race to the campfire to tell stories of your observations. A player can sit at the campfire, in between two symbols visible in their meadow, and collect the points.

Playing cards to your meadow add new symbols to work with, but at the expense of covering one or more existing symbols. This creates an interesting push-and-pull that requires careful hand management. Meadow is a tactical game and planning ahead doesn’t always pan out – it all depends on what cards become available in the drafting zone. Players will have some information in their hands that can help them to plan ahead a bit, but not enough to create an overarching strategy.

The game feels incredibly balanced. In our experience, the final scores tend to be very close – perhaps a bit too close. After a few plays it seems most players will pick up on the primary strategies to collect points and there are not a lot of surprises or excitement surrounding the outcome.


Weight
Meadow is a medium-light strategy game and would work well for a wide range of players. The rulebook is clear and makes learning the game a cinch, and teaching the game is easy. The actions are directly in front of the players in the form of action tokens – simply choose which action to take, either card draft and play, or a campfire action, and perform it. The rules for card placement are pretty intuitive with the theme and are easy to grasp, and the symbology is clear.

Replayability
Two main variables change game-to-game: the symbols that appear at the campfire, and the card draws. These will facilitate minute changes to strategies for each play, but it is not enough to make each game feel entirely unique. After a few plays of Meadow, I felt like I had a grasp on the strategy. There are not many pathways to get points – I would venture that many players will pick up on them quickly and be left with little strategic discovery in future plays.

That is not to say that I don’t find replay value in the game. I rather enjoy getting Meadow to the table. This is a game with a familiar and predictable arc that feels comfortable and relaxing. The replay value on this one will be highly personal, but it is there for me.

Theme / Aesthetics
Meadow is gorgeous, and this is a huge selling point for the game. There are over 200 unique cards, beautifully illustrated with watercolor paintings by Karolina Kijak. Her artwork captures the intricacy of every subject no matter how small, giving each a sense of warmth and importance. Because the game art was handled by a single illustrator, the game’s visuals are cohesive. In addition to lovely illustrations, the game’s graphic design is done well. The symbology is intuitive and allows for a language-independent gaming experience and no ambiguity.

This card tableau-building system allows for a vibrant thematic experience. The card play requirements make sense – certain rodents and birds will require berries, butterflies and bees need flowers, some flowers prefer to grow near cottages, birds often need trees, etc. As a card is laid on top of another it uses those symbols, or resources, making them scarce for others. This simple design allows for a complex ecosystem to grow before players’ eyes. By the end of the game, each player will have built a large, complex card environment that is visually pleasing and makes logical sense.


Interaction / Fun
There is a race to spots at the campfire bench, and there is open drafting with a spatial element that causes players to block each other out from the cards they want – usually unintentionally. Despite this, Meadow is not a highly interactive game. Although there is a slight potential for hate-drafting and purposefully blocking card draws late-game, I feel the action space is so tight that players are more likely to use their actions towards benefitting themselves before actively tanking their opponents.

Turns tend to move quickly, but for players who can’t stand waiting, there is a card index full of information on the flora and fauna in the game that I enjoy referencing even when there isn’t downtime. I think it’s fun to learn about the creatures and plants I’m adding to my meadow. The game also includes five mini-expansions tucked away in envelopes with special instructions on when to open them. All of this enriches the experience and makes Meadow feel special.

Final Thoughts

The theme and mechanics come together beautifully in this game. Just like the beginning of a real nature walk, I start each Meadow adventure unsure of what I will encounter. This game emulates this exploration as you add terrain and organisms to your tableau. Each card’s requirements are simple but faithful to the creature or item’s needs. Every small addition to the landscape consumes a resource and adds fresh ones to the ecosystem, which breathes a sense of life into the game. I love it when games leave me with something I have built – it feels satisfying. This game does that with such charm and richness it’s hard not to fall in love with it.

Meadow offers a quiet, contemplative experience. This game practically begs me to play snuggled in a warm blanket with my coziest sweatpants and a cup of tea. It does not offer a wealth of strategic depth, but it makes up for that with a comfortable, relaxing puzzle experience that is a nice break from heavier, tense strategy games. This is a game that I would recommend to players of most skill levels with a passion for nature and who can appreciate a more tranquil gaming experience.


My Personal BGG Rating: 8.0
Very good – enjoy playing and would suggest it


Blog: https://tabletopmom.com
Instagram: https://instagram.com/tabletopmom
Linktree: https://linktr.ee/tabletopmom
Thank you for this review!

How many plays did you have before reviewing it?
I think BGG should require every reviewer to state number of plays prior to review.
Timothy Pinkham
@TimothyP
How many plays did you have before reviewing it?
I have had the game for a while now, well over a year and longer than I have been tracking plays (and even then I don't trust myself to remember logging every time). I don't have an accurate count on that.

Edit: Just checked my stats and my husband's stats (he has been logging longer than I have) - we are at 10 plays, minimum. Possibly more that didn't get logged.
This is a great review! Regardless of how many plays.

I cant believe the first two comments questioned the validity of it. Gatekeeping much?

Tabletopmom's reviews are top-notch.

Meadow Review!: I could talk about Meadow forever and I’d only have positive things to say… It is so refreshing to sit down and write a review for a game that is truly, honestly so beautiful and well made! So let’s get right to it, shall we?

If you are not familiar with the game at all, Meadow is a card collection game for 1-4 players. It is a nature based game, which will take you through a path of discovery, getting to see the fauna and flora of the area and learning about them as you go. During the game, you get to pick cards from a display of 16 cards and play them in order to create your meadow and the surroundings area. You can also choose to take some special actions to further deepen your strategy and win points by completing goals. At the end of the game, everyone counts the points in their collection and the player with the most points wins.

While I think that the above description is necessary in order to understand the nature of the game, I don’t think it could ever do the game justice. There is so much more to this game. So many reasons to slowly fall in love with it and never let go.

Meadow is a game that was clearly made with love. It shows in every detail, in every choice, from the box itself to the card index and of course the gorgeous art. The illustrations on the cards are one of a kind, obviously made by hand, easily one of the most beautiful games we’ve ever seen. This doesn’t seem to be random, because Chronicles of Avel, by the same company has some gorgeous art too, even if it is very different. There is a pattern here and we absolutely love it! During each game of Meadow, we discover something new and beautiful in the cards while they get opened on the board and that’s a huge part of our fun with this game.

Obviously, the art wouldn’t be enough to keep us interested if the game itself wasn’t good! There is something very special in this game, which is kind of rare to find. The rules are very simple to read, understand and explain, even to inexperienced players. That usually means that the game won’t have much depth and strategy, but this is not the case with Meadow. As you play your first games, you’ll get to realize how much strategy is involved, how careful you have to be with your choices and how much the other players can affect your own gameplay. But at the same time, it doesn’t get tiring. It’s a very gentle balance, it hits a sweet spot, between simplicity and strategy that felt perfect for us. It is definitely not the most complicated game and if you’re looking for a heavy game that will take hours to complete, then no, Meadow is not for you. But it has layers that are not obvious from the beginning and that make this game extremely interesting to come back to!

I could go on forever and get into details of how the specific elements add up to make Meadow a truly great game, but if you haven’t played it and you’re here to decide whether or not you’d like it for your collection, it would only get confusing from now on. So, I’ll leave it here, hoping that I have persuaded you to take a look and see for yourself how special this game is. We can’t wait to dive deeper into the game with the expansion too!

Meadow solo review: This review was first published with pictures on my blog: https://www.inthenapoftime.com/meadow-solo-review/

What is Meadow?
Meadow is what you call a set collection or symbol matching game. In this game you are an explorer going out into nature to observe landscapes and animals and collect keepsakes. Throughout the game you will collect cards to put in your meadow. The symbols you collect represent a food chain, where small animals need things like berries or mushrooms and bigger animals need the small animals to be able to place them. The player with the most points at the end of the game will win.

How to play
The setup for Meadow is pretty easy. You place the main board on the table and place the cardholder in the designated slots. You add the cards in the right cardholders (W-S-E), the fourth cardholder with the N-cards goes above the board. Then you place the campfire board, there are two two-sided boards for all player counts from 1 to 4. You shuffle the goal tokens and place them on the board, for a solo game you will use three goal tokens. Then place the turn marker on the first stone of the turn track. For games with two players or less you also block two notches of the campfire board with the provided bits. For the bot you will place down the little map board. This will be used to determine which cards the bot grabs.

Before you start the game you will receive five path tokens and three bonus tokens in the colour you choose. Use one bonus token of each remaining colour to add to sides of the map board of the bot. After that you receive a road token and a double-sided start card. The bot will draw the four cards on the first row of the board and receive one card from the N deck. Refill the board and then you can choose any of the rows to take your four card plus a card from the N deck.

On your turn you will perform an action with your path tokens. The pointy side of the tokens lets you grab cards from the main board, while the flat side lets you perform special actions on the campfire board. The bot will only take cards and collect them on its board. It will not perform special actions, use bonus tokens or play cards to a meadow.

A card column in your meadow will always start with a ground card. You always start the game with one double-sided ground card and you can add nine more throughout the game. Every column needs to start with a ground card and the ground symbol will remain visible throughout the game. On top of these ground cards you can add your other cards. These are your observation cards and they have requirements about the symbols you need to have in your meadow before you can place them. If these symbols are visible you can place the card in your meadow on top of one of the required symbols. You always leave the victory points visible.

You can also play landscape cards above your meadow. To play these you will use your road tokens. After you use a road token you will flip it to show that it has been used. Landscape cards can also have requirements before you can play them. The last cards you can use are discovery cards, these represent items you discover on your travels and they can be placed on top of landscape cards.

During the game you will grab cards from the main board using your path tokens. When you grab a card from the main board your are also allowed to play one card to your meadow. The bot will also grab cards from the main board but he just always collects them. The cards he collects will represent his score at the end of the game.

The other thing you can do with your path tokens is perform special actions on the campfire board. There are four actions you can do here. You can take any card from the main board. You can take two road tokens. You can look at the top three cards of any deck and keep one or you can play two cards from your hand to your meadow. When performing a special action you don’t get to play a card to your meadow after doing your action. If you have both symbols visible of a neighbouring pair or tokens on the campfire board, you can place a bonus token (starting with the lowest number) in between those symbols on the campfire board. You can place one bonus token per turn if you have placed a path token on the campfire board.

When you have placed all of your path tokens the round ends (the bot will not have placed all of its path tokens). Collect your tokens and give the rest back to the bot and shuffle its stack of path tokens. Now move the round marker to the next stone. Once the round marker reaches the hourglass on the campfire board, discard all the cards from the main board and replace the S deck with the N deck. Then refill the main board with the new deck included.

At the end of the game you will count all your cards and bonus tokens to determine your score. This needs to be higher than the bots score. If its higher you win, if it’s lower you lose.

Look and feel
One of the main selling points of this game is how beautiful it is. And it is visually absolutely stunning. The art for all the cards is lovely and depicts all kinds of lovingly painted wildlife and landscapes. But the art on the cards isn’t the only component that is great about this game. I also love the card deck holders that can go into the box preassembled and make setting up and playing the game loads easier.

The rest of the components are also fine, quality wise. The round marker is a nice, screen-printed wooden traveller. The boards are cardboard, as well as the road, path, and bonus tokens.

The only minus for me would be the size of the box. The box has a plastic insert that accommodates all of the components nicely but it is very spacy. The box could have been a lot smaller if the components would have been fit in a little more snug. This can of course also be a positive when you want to put expansions in with the base game. There is already one expansion (which I don’t own) so that might be a possibility.

How do you play Meadow solo?
The solo for Meadow is an easy to run bot. The bot only collects cards from the main board which are solely used for the points (the bot doesn’t build a meadow like you). To determine which card the bot will grab it uses a small map board. This board represents the main board and you put one bonus token of each colour on one of the sides of this board.

When it is the bots turn you draw one of its path tokens (it gets all the remaining path tokens after you have chosen a colour). The colour of the token determines which side of the main board the token will go, matching the coloured bonus token on its map board. Then you look at the number on the path token and match that with the right number on the main board. Grab the card and add it to the pile for the bot.

If the bot draws a path token with a question mark it will not draw a card. Instead it will block one of the spaces on the campfire board. It will not do a special action, it simply prevents you from adding your token to that spot.

Once all of your path tokens are used the round will end so the bot will not use all of its tokens per round. Once the round ends you collect your own tokens and gives the rest back to the bot. Officially you have to shuffle the path tokens back into the bots stack to make his new draw pile. I, however, just use a bag for the bots path tokens so I add them back into the bag after each round. This is easier than making a draw pile every time and shuffling the path tokens (their odd shape doesn’t make them easy to shuffle).

What I think of the game
The main term I would use for Meadow as a solo game is relaxing. The art is beautiful and building up your meadow is kind of meditative. This is helped a lot by the easy to run bot, doing its actions is simple and your quickly back to making decisions about your own meadow.

When the game starts the choices you have are fairly limited. Your start card has a symbol on either side so you have to choose which one to use and then you choose starting cards that will (hopefully) match with this symbol. So you first few turns are simply to build up your base. But once you have are halfway through the game and the N-deck comes into play the choices get a lot harder. You have more cards in your tableau which means more symbols to keep track of. The new cards also require more symbols and give more points. I regularly try to plan ahead three or more turns only to foil my own plans by adding a card on top of a symbol I would have needed two turns down the road.

So how relaxing this game truly is depends a lot on your own way of playing. Do you want to plan ahead multiple turns? Then be careful you don’t ruin your own plans! But you can also simply look at your options on every turn. Because there are quite a few cards on the main board there is often something available you can play now or in a turn or two.

Playing this game solo doesn’t detract a lot from the experience I think. But there is only one bot so it doesn’t happen very often that it will take just that card that you wanted to grab. I can imagine this will happen more with more players. The bot also isn’t very smart so in my experience it’s easy to win from him. Because he just collects cards willy nilly it will also collect a lot of zero points cards (landscape cards for example) without getting any benefit from that. When a player grabs one of these cards it is with the goal to be able to use a high scoring card in the future but the bot doesn’t make this determination.

In my opinion this game works better as a pure BYOS (beat your own score) and I mainly compare my score against other games I played to see how well I did. From what I understand the expansion “fixes” this and makes the game a pure BYOS so that is definitely something to check out. There are also multiple adaptations to the bot available on the forums of BoardGameGeek to check out.

All in all I think this is a pretty good game. It is easy to play and operate the bot but the real great combos come from investing some good thinking and planning ahead. The components are good and the art is stunning, making playing the game a great experience.

Plus:
- Beautiful artwork, great components
- Planning ahead is rewarding
- Easily operated bot. Blocks spots forcing you to take it into account in planning
- Easy to learn with a good rulebook

Cons
- Solo victory conditions don’t really work. Winning from the bot is to easy. (Downstream might fix this)
- The bot usually doesn’t really hinder you in any meaningful way
- Box is bigger than needed
Daphne
@DaMei91
Cons
- Solo victory conditions don’t really work. Winning from the bot is to easy. (Downstream might fix this)
It really is a BYOS solo - the bot scores and sets the minimum to win, but your level of win is based on your score.

Downstream does away with the not score and is fully BYOS with levels of victory.

The bot is very random, but does block the board and does take cards you may want, but equally can pick up useless cards and help you by cycling the cards.
Eawyne
wrote:
Can the bigger than needed box fit the expansion's components ? (or any of all those expansions/promos)
Have Downstream in the base game box.

Meadow - WhatBoardGame.com Review: Original with pictures posted here - https://www.whatboardgame.com/post/meadow-board-game-review

It must be lovely to be able to take a long walk whenever you like and see all the wonderful things that nature has to offer. Living in the UK with our cliche amounts of rain however limits this…quite a bit. Luckily I now have Meadow to help me see what nature has to offer and I get to avoid the snakes, it’s a win-win situation…….in fact I may never leave the house again!

Obey the laws of nature.

Setup Meadow by placing the East, West decks on each side of the board and filling the spaces below them with cards the South deck will go in between and fill up the remaining two columns from that deck. Give each player their path tokens. Each player receives a starting ground card and a road token. Decide on a first player then, in turn order each player takes one row of cards from the board and then takes the top card of the North deck. This deck will come into play later in the game. The cards get replaced for the next player to take.

On your turn you’ll play one of your path tokens either on the main board or on the campfire board. Each token has a number on the arrow end and a special ability on the other. When you play onto the main board you place the arrow end into one of the empty notches on the main board and then take the card that is the number of spaces away from your token as indicated by the number on the arrow. Next you get to play a card from your hand into your meadow.

Each card will have a fantastic piece or art on it. (Seriously though you need to stop staring at it and pay attention otherwise we’ll never get through this review.) You’ll also have a symbol in the top left which will be the symbol the card gives you once it’s played. The ones underneath are the requirements you need to have on show in your meadow in order to play the card. You can then play that card in your meadow on top of one of the required symbols covering it up. There will also be landscape cards and these cards play pretty much the same but they will also require a road token. You start the game with one and can acquire more by using one of your path bonuses. You can also discard two cards from your hand to act as a requirement when playing a card. You can do this multiple times for one card but you can't do this for all requirements on that card, you need to be able to fulfil at least one from your meadow.

When you play the token on the camp board using the square end of your path token you’ll trigger a special bonus. This could be letting you take any card on the board, playing two cards from your hand, take two road tokens or look at the top three cards from a deck and add one to your hand. Aside from the power that lets you play two cards, you won’t be able to play a card into your meadow when you use a bonus power.
One other thing you can do when you play a bonus is you can claim a goal from the campfire board. These are tokens set out around the campfire board in a circle with symbols that match the ones on the cards.They create pairs and if you have both symbols of a pair showing in your meadow you can claim one by placing your lowest point marker in the space between them. This will mean that no one else can claim that particular pair.

After half of the rounds have gone by, clear the board of all cards and swap out the south deck with the north deck and refill the board. The north deck will contain cards with higher point values. After a number of rounds score up the points from any goals you’ve claimed and the points from the cards in your meadow.

Indiana Jones and the search for the Edible Dormouse.

Meadow is a beautiful game, there’s no two ways about it. It’s one of those games that you could easily take off the shelf every now and then, shuffle through the cards, admire the artwork, then put it back without even having played it and still feel like you’ve got your money’s worth. I’d encourage you not to do that all the time though because beyond that stunning artwork from Karolina Kijak and Katarzyna Fiebiger is a game that screams “come for the artwork but stay for the brilliant thinky puzzle underneath” As a side note if you’re game does start screaming at you I’d advise contacting the publisher for a copy that isn't possessed

Playing cards and collecting the prerequisites for the cards Meadow is like the plot of an Indiana Jones movie (or if you’re of the younger generation Uncharted) You know where you need to start and you know where you want to get, but the journey in between will have you bouncing here and and everywhere trying to find the best path and just like those movies, the journey is where the joy of the puzzle lies in Meadow. Whilst you stare lovingly at that artwork, so much so that you have to be nudged to take your turn, you’ll eventually spot a card that you want. It could be for its points value or it could be the perfect symbol to nab one of those goals. So you take it, but now you need the requirements visible in your meadow to build the thing and that ain’t gonna be easy. What follows will be a chain reaction of events where you play one card, which then lets you play this other one, but then you need this other one so you can play this symbol there which finally lets you play the big card you initially wanted to play in the first place. That all sounds quite convoluted and in some cases it can be but it’s also a lot of fun trying to puzzle it all out. It’s also not all wasted. Apart from ground cards, each card has a points value so not only are you working towards goals and the bigger cards but you're also still scoring while you’re doing that.

More than just a walk in the park.

Meadow is certainly a game that has you thinking multiple steps ahead and in a perfect world you would be able to take cards at your leisure and nothing would disrupt your beautiful nature filled engine. Unfortunately this is board gaming and other players exist to (to be fair, unknowingly) mess up all of that beautiful work in more ways than one. This is an open drafting game so yes, players taking your cards has its usual frustrations and will have you rethinking your plan whenever this happens. More often than not though the cards they take won’t be the issue. Where they’ve placed their path token will. It's a great feeling when your turn comes around and that perfect card is still left for you to reach out and grab. All you need to do is place out your path token and take it. Then you get the sinking feeling when you realise that none of your path tokens can get you that card either because all the spaces you need to use are blocked, or because you’ve used the token needed to get it earlier in the round. That possibility of having, not only your card taken, but also your path to that card blocked as well really ups the tensions between turns. This increases with the player count because the spaces will fill up quicker and there’s going to be more chance your card won’t be there by the time your turn comes.
This is where the bonuses come into play. These are all going to be useful at some point in the game but all but one of them come with a price of not being able to play a card that turn and that can be a pretty big thing, but the sacrifice may sometimes be worth it.

I really love the puzzle this game throws at you and I love the way you can watch your engine build and evolve. The first few turns and rounds are all really about building it up. You can build ten columns in your meadow and I suggest you try and get as many as you can before that North deck kicks in so you can play those cards, which usually have a few more requirements on them, a bit easier.
Having to cover up a symbol when you play a card gives you so many tough choices to make. Especially when you’ve spent a few turns building up to get a card, only to agonise whether or not you want to cover it, or another one up you’ve worked for, so you can play this other card.

Don’t feed the ducks!

The gameplay itself does scale up well between the 1-4 player counts but the lower the player count the less the cards cycle. If at two, both players take a card on their turn then you’re only seeing potentially two new cards before your next turn. It can be a bit frustrating when none of the cards on the board fit what you’re doing and the new cards don’t either. In that instance it’s easy to feel like you’re playing a token for a card just for the sake of it. Especially if any of the bonuses don’t work for you. It’s always good to have cards in your hand that you can easily discard for a requirement but I’d rather have taken those with a plan in mind and then change track. It would be nice if there was some way of refreshing a row with a bonus just to keep the board state fresh, especially in those lower player counts.
I’m also torn between the length of the game in terms of rounds in the four player game. It’s eight rounds rather than 6 in other player counts.In one respect It does feel like it may be one or even two rounds too long, but on the other hand I have had games where I needed those rounds just so I could finish off the plan I had going. I do appreciate though that it’s that many rounds to give players an equal chance at going first.
This last one is a very me thing and I’m going to quote an earlier film icon I mentioned earlier, Snakes, why’d it have to be snakes!

Learning is optional.

One thing I would like to applaud Rebel for doing is that fantastic card index book. They’ve done a similar thing in Chronicles of Avel (see my review on the site) Each card has a number on and you can look it up in this book and find out the name of the animal, it’s scientific name, a fact about it and you can even use the book as a field journal if you’re so inclined. I love that they’ve done this. It means that none of this information that, while fun, isn’t relevant to the gameplay, can still be included without compromising the art and can keep the cards to a decent size.
Another thing included in the box is five sealed envelopes with thematic cards inside.They’re not recommended for your first game but they can be shuffled into your decks once open. You can open these whenever you want but if you want to have some fun with them then there are some achievements in the rules that you can aim for before you open each one. Some in game, some real life. All mine are open but don’t worry, I’ve not included any of them in the photos.

I do have a lot of fun with this game. The thinky, engine building nature of it gives me a great puzzle to work on and the beautiful artwork gives me something to look at while I’m doing it. Nature themed games are more and more popular these days and this is one I think stands out well amongst them.

UnfilteredGamer.com Review: Meadow: In the beautifully illustrated game of Meadow, you take on the role of nature observers wandering the countryside, exploring and revealing the stories of the plants, insects, animals and the landscapes around you. Centered around a series of unique card drafting phases, players will be managing their hands to build a tableau that will be used to grow a set of cards representing the natural chain of life. Earn points by becoming the most skilled observer, collect souvenirs and fulfill objectives around the campfire.


On Your Turn

The idea of observing nature as it unfolds and interacts may seem overly ambiguous for a board game, but in Meadow, you take control of miniature geographic settings as life interacts and blossoms. Just like real life, you begin with a slice of land equipped for hosting specific plants, insects and animals—it’s the circle of life at its genesis.

Throughout the game you’ll draw and play cards featuring different interactions in nature. This might be a beetle that enjoys rocky terrain or a bird that requires berries to eat. As play progresses new animals are introduced… even homes and fences. Each card features a symbol representing a resource in nature, the symbols required to play that card and an endgame point value.

During your turn, you have the option to draft a card from the game’s 16 card, 4x4 grid and play 1 in your personal tableau. In order to play a card, you’ll need to have the necessary symbols visibly available in front of you. Once you’ve met the criteria, you play the newly achieved card on top of a card featuring one the necessary resources—sort of representing the consumption of that land, animal or food. This process continues, growing multiple stacks or “mini-stories” that serve as a tableau of ever changing available symbols (since the top card is typically the only active symbol for that stack - apart from the original land type). New stacks can be started by playing a card with a basic plot of land.

Where Meadow gets interesting is in its grid-based drafting system. Each round, each player has 5 actions represented by dual-purpose path tokens. Each path token can be played on 1 of 3 sides of the grid. Each path card features a number from 1 to 4 specifying which card they will draft along that row or column that turn. This is similar to the drafting in Quadropolis or a bit like Targi (if you’re familiar with either of those). Playing your path token will also block that space for the rest of the round limiting where following players may play.

These are dual-purpose path tokens and the 2nd option is to play your token around the campfire. The campfire is a second board that tracks the current round as well showcases community objects. With only a limited number of action spaces, not everyone will be able to visit the campfire. The secondary actions allow a player to break the rules in certain ways such as taking a card from any spot on the nature grid, drawing 3 face down cards and keeping 1, playing 2 cards into your tableau instead of 1 or selecting road tokens which allow you different card playing options. Choosing this secondary action does eliminate playing the normal, single card into your tableau that turn.

The community objectives on the campfire board take effect when a player has achieved 2 specific symbols in their tableau and can be acquired just by playing at the campfire.

Play continues 6 or 8 rounds (depending on player count). At the end, the player with the most points is declared the greatest observer.


Artwork & Components

The artwork in Meadow is universally loved for good reason. Each card features a beautiful, colorful and unique watercolor image. You’l enjoy the squirrels, butterflies, birds and trees, each telling its own enchanting story. Regardless of the gameplay, I can see Meadow being embraced for the artwork alone.

The components add a lot of personality to the game as well. The game’s card decks are broken into 4 categories each represented by a direction. These decks sit nicely in 4 foldable, cardboard deck holders that lock in nicely to the main board. The circular, double-sided campfire board provides visual contract and charm to the game.

Overall, this is an incredibly attractive production that will lure you into the world of Meadow.


Pros & Cons
Captivating watercolor illustrations
Nice components
Fun theme & “story”
Fairly easy to learn
Solo mode is well done and plays quickly

Game length goes a little long
Can lead to analysis paralysis
Cards are random—it can be frustrating waiting on a card that never shows up


Why would you like this game?
Fans of nature themed games and tableau builders are going to get the most out of Meadow. Thematically, it stands out in the nature field (see what I did there?) with its unique story-like gameplay.


What is the best thing about Meadow?
The best thing about Meadow is the game’s beautiful artwork. There are so many different illustrations and each one is captivating in its own way.


Final Thoughts
I’ve heard a lot about Meadow for quite awhile. How it’s a peaceful and relaxing game where you frolic through the garden gazing at the bugs. I’ve also heard people praise it for its non-combative gameplay.

I think it’s important to first dispel these rumors.

Meadow is a think-y game where you’re managing a multi-layered tableau. Planning is critical as you pursue objectives and personal goals… and just when you’re ready to draw the last piece an opponent comes out of the woodwork to grab your card (even if they didn’t need it) forcing you into a downward spiral of pain.

Ok, so that might be a bit of an over-exaggeration, but Meadow is a game where you’re simultaneously juggling multiple facets in your mind at once. Choosing when to “spend” a card to gain another can leave you second guessing yourself for days. The same can be said for playing your path tokens. While there are always multiple points to draw a card or take an action, there is usually a “best” play and this is where my first issue with the game comes in: the game is a bit too long for itself.

In theory, this should be a pleasant, easy-going, decently fast-paced game, but those think-y turns—especially during crunch time—can really slow down the flow of the game. There is a lot to consider each turn and this was bound to happen. Even when you plan ahead, the card grid can look completely different by your next turn. Ultimately, this is a think-y game where you have to stay on your toes.

While Meadow is a bit of a group solitaire game by some standards, the community goals and card drafting provide the opportunity for interaction by blocking someone or stealing the card they want. It doesn’t sound like a very pleasant game, huh?

Those criticisms are shared a bit tongue-in-cheek. I think Meadow is a fine game that grows on me with each play. The entire production is classy and captivating. The artwork alone is an amazing accomplishment. Additionally, I’ve talked a lot about the game telling a story. I’m not sure how impactful this idea is for everyone, but I really got into this aspect. As each stack in your tableau grows, so does the micro story of that tiny place in space:

Imagine that you begin with a small plot of land playing host to some beetles or berries. A tree might grow up on the land right before your eyes. Before long a bird makes its way looking for food and builds a nest in the tree. Sometime later a fence might be built or even a house. Animals such as foxes or squirrels can be seen across the yard. And before you know it, those beetles have made their way inside the house and you have to call an exterminator.

I’m a big fan of the card drafting mechanic here—it provides a lot of opportunity for fun decisions as you weigh when and how to use your path tokens. The campfire seems a little tacked on thematically, but it also provides a place for community goals as well opportunities to cash in on your dual purpose actions.

The game’s length is a bit of a challenge, but I really like Meadow as a solo game. The AI isn’t brilliant, but it’s super easy to maintain and allows you to move through the game at your own pace. This completely eliminates waiting around for your opponents. At that point, if the game takes too long, the only person you can blame is yourself.

Nature themed games are all the rage right now. While Meadow isn’t the best in this category, it is a solid game that provides a quality experience. The think-y nature of the game took me by surprise and I felt a little betrayed by it. I was expecting something more along the lines of Parks or Wingspan, but Meadow wants you to think—as in using your brain. At first, my response was somewhere along the lines of “how dare you!” But, the more I play the more I become familiar with the choices and mapping out my strategy and the game slows down in the right way. It really does become about telling the story of your small pieces of land and the beauty that surrounds it. I hesitantly recommend Meadow, because it may take you by surprise. This is more on the challenging side of your typical family-weight game, but I think it could potentially be pleasing to the Parks or Wingspan crowd looking to step up their game.

A Magnificent Design of Relaxing Solitaire Elegance: In these times when all the world is a stage gone mad, we need a diversion: a board game that doesn’t involve slaying dragons, defeating bosses, replaying world wars or for that matter, any form of conflict at all. A game where meditation is the element, and mindfulness is the result; where we’re reminded of the world’s beauty—that it still exists outside—and will be there when we next venture out. A game set at a bucolic pace.


Inside the Meadow box.

Welcome to Meadow, for 1-4 players by designer Klemens Kalick, and brought to life by artists Karolina Kijak and Katarzyna Fiebiger.

Meadow is a magnificent invention, and a wonderful solitaire gaming exercise (my chosen mode of play and the focus for what follows).


Meadow in action.

Indeed, in Meadow solitaire gamers finally receive a bot that's not only a breeze to run (next to Obsession’s maybe the simplest and most nuanced I’ve seen), but one free of unfair cheats. “Rover”, as the bot is called, has a simple goal: to amass victory points, against which you compete and where Rover interferes with your road to discovery in a sometimes surprisingly competitive way.

Experienced strategy gamers will have no trouble finding the tactics required to win but as we often say, pulling them off takes the industriousness of a bumble bee and the elegance of a deer.

Thing is, the entire experience is so immersive and relaxed, so free of designer egotism, that each play session—regardless of one’s gaming background—is a pleasure borne by art that turns the quest for points-based card collection into a subconscious treat.

You see, during one of your actions, while perusing the main game board for victory points, on which sits a card array or tableau, your gaze will suddenly shift to see that a card worth “3” is actually a unique bird. You’ll then learn that this bird favours a habitat around a house, that it prefers houses with insects in the garden, with these gardens near wooden fences, and the whole in a grassland milieu. You’re told this narrative through card icons and should you be able to bring them together, a 3-point speckled robin becomes an even greater points story you get to “tell” as part of your end game esteem.

“Discovering” each of these elements card-by-card is Meadow’s puzzle. In a series of alternating actions between players, or player and bot, you search for card icons you need while working out how to grab them for your own tableau or “story” before Rover intercedes, or the entire game board refreshes halfway through play when more valuable and more demanding cards come into play.

Your role as player then, is to identify these natural chains of what I’ll call “causation”, to pre-empt them, lay the foundations for them, and exploit them by turning them into a narrative engine.

That is indeed your goal: To take a journey through a literal meadow and observe how the natural world interacts—how each aspect of nature (a card), creates the pleasure of discovering others (your own tableau), culminating at the end of 6 rounds of 5 actions each (in solo play) with the best story (the highest point score) to tell.


A player's tableau in progress—massive nuance not shown.

And should you as the solitaire gamer beat Rover, your point score is then rated in terms of its epic merit. Winning solo means something.

Meadow is a thing of beauty, crafted expertly for the experienced and casual gamer alike. It would make a perfect gift for that someone seeking a low rules overhead and relaxing fun.

For solitaire, a playing surface of 22 x 34 inches (56 x 86 cm) is ample for what you need.


The Meadow storage insert.

Best yet, game storage is offered in the box via a generous and thoroughly useful insert. I’ve even adopted a draw bag from my spare parts collection to serve as Rover’s chit holder from which bot actions are randomly selected. It fits too.

As for rules, indeed: they’re short and clear.

Just bring a pair of comfortable virtual hiking shoes and your imagination. Your Meadow hides the secrets that come next.

Happy gaming,
Adam.
A great review of what I think is a stellar game. I have not played solo, but multiplayer has yielded some excellent game.
Got a copy on Mondày, as an escape from conflict simulations. It's a joy to behold, and as a wargamer, how I appreciate the insert too!

First impressions - a more advanced, longer 7 Wonders (Duel) for those sensitive to conflict and theft.: First impressions mini review (I'm trying my wings here on BGG, done one indepth review so far but plan to do more!) after merely 2 plays. I'm choosing a different format this time.

Who is this game for?
Couples where at least one of you is seriously conflict sensitive.
Why? Essentially it is a set collector like 7 Wonders, 7 Wonders Duel, and Splendor, however with a far wider selection of possible cards to take, and the increased pool of cards (icons) available at any given time compared to those games is far richer, drastically reducing the chance of stealing something the other player wanted really badly. The larger pool also means that there may be multiple of the same cards you or other players want, and everyone gets to have his/her own, which gives a sense of relaxing safety to all. I understand why more conflict focused players see this is boring, but first, again, this game is not for those type of players and I'm glad we can have something like this on the market, and second, there is a smartly well balanced pre-requirement system in place that makes this interesting (later on this, see cycle of life).
Families and children
Why The game is very child friendly in graphics, but honestly this isn't something I'd consider when I say something is child friendly - as an 90s kid myself, I watched Batman The Animated Series which can be quite depressing emotional horror as an adult, and watched the most bloody Jean Claude van Damme movies imaginable, and I turned out just fine. What makes this game child friendly is the educational nature of the game, which intertwines with it's absolutely stunning graphics. While it isn't necessarily an entry level game - I'd put it into medium weight, despite BGG's shockingly low 2.2 - it is easy to grasp, and a great gateway game to more complex titles. Personally, me and my fiancé find it refreshing to go backwards in complexity these days, and this game sits on the perfect border of learning it is easy, but it doesn't feel dumb as if purposefully made for smaller children. It is a perfectly engaging game for adults aswell.

What is this game about?
Exploring a peaceful little corner of nature without the supposedly cool delusion of grandeour in the best possible way: this game focuses on the flora and fauna of a meadow (suprise!) and a nearby forest, in greater detail in a soul soothing journey across it's ecosystem. We found it especially refreshing not only because it quite literally gave us a sense of breathing fresh air, but because focusing on what is quite literally surrounding us averge european smalltown players, instead of exotic rare animals from around the globe. It feels real, which the mechanics also support.

As for mechanics, you'll be building card sets with new cards built on top of each other as your ever growing set increases in diversity and combined value, however unlike in 7 Wonders and other tableu builders, you will also lose a card (well, it's icon, the card stays and is still worth points) when you successfully build a new one. You can only ever build in a new card by covering up another card that has one of the requirement icons of the new one, so it's always only the top card of each of your card columns that counts as your current set that can be used to build something new on. The game also comes with a large set of alternative action options, for those who feel like despite the wide selection of new cards available, they just don't really want to disturb their little green field right now.

What I consider the highest added value of Meadow to the boardgame hobby is the perfect sync of mechanics and thematics about the cycle of life. For example, you get a green field as the foundation of one of your card columns. From it's earth, you may get a worm. That worm may be part of what makes the land healthy, and with the worm + earth being the prerequirement of a plant, you can now place a plant. Which plant will then serve as the requirement for a caterpillar, that serves as the requirement for a butterfly, which can be eaten by a spider, which can be eaten by a bird, a bird that may be required for a forest cottage with a birdhouse (among other requirements you are building on different columns, going somewhere else entirely), that'll have a mouse live nearby, serving as food for a larger predator. That is just one example. Magic School Bus came to my mind from my childhood: learn about nature in a fun, playful way. For this alone I find this game extremely high value, but when we look at it from a more professional point of view, these various icons are also replaced by what you build out of them (the new card covers the old one's icon in a way that leaves the gorgeuos watercolor art fully visible, but covers up the mechanically relevant icon), meaning you lose the previous icons. When a card has multiple required icons to be in one of your card columns (and it's always just the top card of each column that matters, since anything below them are covered), you have a decision to make which card in which column should be used to build your next card on it - a decision you make based on what's in front of you in the shared pool you draw from. A series of these decisions that kick in from roughly middle of the game, gives the complexity of this game.

As a footnote, the game also comes with a smaller book where every single one of the unique animals / insects / nature cards have a small extra fun fact written about them in a "did you know?" way, which is again, highly educational for children, adds to the relaxing nature of the game for adults, and can add an extra learn while having fun factor for families, where parents can read out loud the fun did you know facts to their kids, or have their kids practice reading them!

Production quality
Meadow has no right to be as stunning as it is at the price point it is sold. The four card decks that serve as the background for the drawing pool consists of nothing else but entirely unique waterpainted artwork. The game has ~200 cards, and every single one of them is unique, and not a single one is an outlier: no best, no worst looking cards, consistent beauty across all of it. They also come with a little cardboard backpack that serve as "chairs" to put the four decks on (East, West, North, South decks) on, it comes with a pretty board to lay out the current card pool you draft from, and another board that shows a little campire in the forest around which you can "rest" and take special actions. I'm not a fan of having 2 main boards but their shape and size made it a necessity to make them two separate boards, however I'd be more happy with it if their weird unique shape would also include a single puzzle connection part so we could combine them in a fixed position optionally. Also it's a bit too easy to forget to fill up the card pool board because the background color / graphics really blends in with the cards, but this is just my most miniscule nitpicking really.

As we got deeper and deeper into this hobby we find it increasingly shocking how quite expensive games with less content than this one (again, it's not the cheapest games, but in the cheap-middle category around here, and it's extremely high quality, quantity content makes it cheap), come with no insert whatsoever. Unlike those, Meadow has a perfectly functional, very well organized insert for the amont of content that justifies it's box size aswell. Sadly, this is a rarity on the market, which makes Meadow climb ever higher on my "what do I value as good production quality" scale. Mentioned it already, but the absolutely needless little extra touch of a did you know / fun facts book (a few pages really) feel like a gift, and a few extra cards that are in little envelopes, supposedly opened at Christmas or the official first day of Spring, adding just one extra card each time to the game that already feels like it just keeps giving, for a long time to come.
Quote:
The game has ~200 cards, and every single one of them is unique, and not a single one is an outlier: no best, no worst looking cards, consistent beauty across all of it.
The artist must be close to the designer because I don't know how they got so many pieces of art from one person and still price the game the way they did. Rebel is not a large company like Ravensburger or Hasbro so this is quite remarkable to me.
I wouldn’t refer to Meadow as a more advanced 7 wonders duel. Both certainly have card drafting but the mechanisms are completely different. Meadow has a market and you are tying to get the most points by the end of the game with all cards available. Duel, only shows some available cards. And with military/science victory conditions that render points money useless, there are more deviations from the base card drafting mechanism.
I would say they are similar, due to card drafting but that is as far as I can see them being comparable.
I would also add that meadow is quite in you face as it relates to the bonus points earned on the sub board…….with a lot of competition to get them!
I would also say Meadow plays well with 2-4 players (all combinations are good), but duel is only 2 player (major difference).
@Waveshaper
and a few extra cards that are in little envelopes, supposedly opened at Christmas or the official first day of Spring, adding just one extra card each time to the game that already feels like it just keeps giving, for a long time to come.
Not quite! Each pack actually has 5-8 new cards to contribute! How's THAT for added value? (And yes, I've been good and have only opened them when I hit the requirements as suggested. I love it, it's like getting free promo packs throughout the year.)
That's great news! We had my sister and her boyfriend over at our place and they brought the game, so I could only hear about these packs as they opened them all already (not at the time they were supposed to, but if they can sleep well after that... ). We are on the edge of buying a copy at 20% discount (poor country so it's something to consider) for ourselves, and writing this mini review was I believe part of the process to convince myself. I think you just added that little extra last push we needed, thanks!
We added the cards (not the deer cards) from the beginning play of the game. 7 wonders duel is more complex (both are pretty straight forward) than meadow because there are more actions. In 7 wonders, you also have to build and play your wonder, collect money, and pay money for resources. And there are different sets of age cards where in Meadow there is only one deck swap at Midgame.
We played it at Lexicon at the end of March, and liked it enough to buy it and bring it to the table for a couple weeks. It is boxed now, but we will be keeping the game! I think it was one of the best games in 2021.
Nice job with your review @Waveshaper. I'm looking forward to reading more of your perspective on games. I'd be curious to hear your take on Living Forest, more fantastical themed, but with some similar play elements as Meadow.
Thank you for posting your thoughts here!

A bit of input: Since first impressions are rampant in the boardgaming world, and since opinions of a game can change so much with repeated plays, I would much rather read reviews after many plays of a game, personally. I've learned not to put much value on reviews unless the reviewer has played 10 or more times.
Timothy Pinkham
@TimothyP
Thank you for posting your thoughts here!

A bit of input: Since first impressions are rampant in the boardgaming world, and since opinions of a game can change so much with repeated plays, I would much rather read reviews after many plays of a game, personally. I've learned not to put much value on reviews unless the reviewer has played 10 or more times.
While on the one hand I agree with you, we’d see even fewer negative reviews as a result, because games that aren’t received well won’t get to 10 plays.

But… in general I at least prefer more than one play as well.

That being said, I found this review useful.

Great blend of artwork and mechanisms - a BoardGame Insights review of Meadow: There are some games in which artwork is employed in order to partially mask some subpar mechanisms. There are other games in which near-perfect mechanisms are missed out because of poor production or disappointing artwork. And then there are games like Meadow, in which gameplay and artwork are beautifully intertwined, creating a coherent whole that is much more enjoyable than it could have been in the absence of either of them, or had either been lesser.

Meadow is a game about exploring nature and cataloguing the beauty of your surroundings. Gameplay is straightforward, and the watercolor illustrations contribute a great deal to the pleasantness of the game. Each round, players choose whether to use a path token on the campfire board (each token serving a different function if used this way) or on the main board. If they opt for the latter, they place it in one of the notches of the board, and the number written on the token indicates which card they can take. Optionally, they can choose to play a card from their hand (and, more often than not, you will want to do that, as long as you have the means of doing it).



Drafting cards and subsequently playing them is what you do for the most part of the game. Players form columns in their tableau, each of them starting with a ground card (found in the E-deck). On top of those cards they can play other cards, if they have all the available symbols required. And this is the interesting part about Meadow – although you don’t have physical resources to handle, each card has a cost printed on it that specifies what symbols have to be visible in your tableau in order to be able to play that card. Each time you play a card, you consume one of those symbols by partially covering the card (leaving visible only the victory points value). The requirements fit thematically with the illustrations on those cards (for instance, a butterfly card has as a requirement a caterpillar tag). The rulebook has on the last page a very useful table depicting where the symbols can be found and how often they are present among the 4 available decks. In our first games, we kept looking at the distribution of the cards – it’s a nice touch that this was included, as it gives you some hints as to where you might find the specific cards that you need.

There’s also a race to fulfill objectives (having pairs of specific symbols), increasing competition without deviating too much from the relaxing nature of the game. The way this works is that several tokens are laid out around the campfire, and once you have 2 adjacent symbols visible in your tableau, you can place a claim token between them, but only if you use an action token on that specific board. While there are not that many victory points that can be gained this way (you have 3 such claim tokens, valued 2, 3 or 4 points, and you have to use them in ascending order), it gives you another thing to focus on during the game and adds to the setup variability, which is always a plus for us.



Deciding how to use your tokens is a fascinating aspect, as sometimes you might sacrifice the opportunity to take a good card just because you want to take 2 road tokens, which can only be obtained by using an action token on the campfire board. Also, the more you advance in a round, the less accessible some of the cards become, as tokens start to fill the notches surrounding the board. All of these aspects lead to a very enjoyable experience.

This is not to say that Meadow is a game for everyone. It’s a family game that has the benefit of being quite short (in 2 player at least it averages around 30-40 minutes for us), which means that you can play 2 games back-to-back quite easily. There are certain strategies that you can explore (such as preparing your tableau for the N-deck cards, which give more victory points, by setting up a lot of ground cards, or chaining cards of a certain type, or fishing for landscape cards), but some might still find them a bit too restricted after a couple of plays. The game is meant to offer a pleasant experience which leans towards the lighter side, and you have to take that into account when judging whether it would be a good addition to your collection.

We have not opened yet any of the envelopes included in the box – which include more thematic cards (including a new symbol). The variety of cards and the fact that each card has a distinct illustration shows the labor of love that went into producing this game. The thematic integration also feels great. You truly feel like an explorer, travelling through nature and wondering at everything you witness in your path. There are so many beautiful cards that a lot of the time in the first few games you will spend admiring them. I cannot stress how well they complement the mechanics and setting of the game.



One of the things that I’d like to see in a future expansion (I know that one has been announced, but not sure what exactly it’s going to add) is cards that build even more upon the landscape cards. Currently, you can play souvenir cards on the landscape cards, and that mini-set ends there. I’d like to see more cards that can be added on top of those souvenir cards (although I admit that I’m not really seeing what they could be thematically).

Review copy of the game provided by the publisher.

You can see more glimpses from the game on our Instagram account (unfortunately, the song that we used seems not to be available anymore, but you can still see the beautiful illustrations).

Opinions of two newbie-meeples: Meadows

Build an evolving engine to create a meadow

In a six round game, players perform actions placing their path tokens in unoccupied notches of either the main board or the campfire board in order to collect the most of the points through cards and goals.

Fit to 2-player games: Game works well with 2P although it is somewhat too loose: At the end, there are almost always good options making the benches in the campfire useless in 2P games.

Time to play: Around 50 minutes including point counting. The time can increase in case of strong AP, above all in the last rounds: Each decision has a consequence as it changes the engine, making a bad move highly regrettable.

Set Up: Quite fast. Preparing the board with the 16 cards and the fire place with the bonus tokens takes a couple of minutes

Interaction: The interaction is mainly given by the 3 notches available in the campfire and by the "race" to get the bonuses. In a minor way, taking some cards away from your opponent can give additional interaction. Nevertheless, the game looks more like a solitaire and in my opinion, it gets difficult to consider the opponent tableau as players are busy enough with their own meadow.

Complexity: Rules are easy and the rulebook is quite clear without leaving big doubts. It can be explained in 10 minutes to new players.

Strategy/Luck: There is some luck given by the card availability: Nevertheless, the plan to build the engine is critical, creating a good combination between strategy and tactic.

Quality component/Artwork: The artwork is amazing and is a pleasure for the eyes. The components are very good quality. I really like the card holders that make the game easier and tidier.



Space on the table: Boards and the different player meadows take some space on table. So, a middle size table is required.

Theme: The artwork works very well in creating a theme around the game. The only items that I find somewhat forced are the landscapes and above all, the discovery cards: Although they add a lot on the strategy and mechanics of the game, I don’t find them a good fit to the overall theme.

Replayability: 200 cards (although many cards have same attributes) and different bonus tiles provide a good level of replayability.

Overall: Meadow is a solid evolving tableau building game with a stunning artwork where players will have to careully think about every single move in creating their colourful meadows. It might be AP prone getting somewhat slow and in two players, lacks interaction, feeling like a solitaire (this is not necessary something negative).

Would it be in my top five? No. For me, the main problem I see with Meadow is that it is a medium-light game where you have to think a bit too much. So it is not a real relaxing option and at the same time, it is too light in case you want something heavier.

Client Service: I need to add an additional note on the client service: I had an issue with one of my card holders: I wrote to the publisher and in less than a week, I received a new one directly at home. Top service.



---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
If you want to read my 2P experience with other games, please check my geeklist: Opinions of two newbie-meeples (https://boardgamegeek.com/geeklist/285730/opinions-two-newbi...).

Silver Duck Reviews: Meadow: Plays: 3 at player counts: 1 - 2

Appearance

The front of the box shows a stoat along with some other images of nature giving an idea of the theme of the game. The back of the box shows a game in progress showing the cards and overall table presence of the game. Inside the box are lots of cardboard and wooden components along with cards. These cards are separated by 4 different decks and can each be stored in a foldable deck holder when constructed. The art on these cards is stunning, full of colour and life even the buildings look beautiful thanks to the colours present. The cardboard components are all good quality with each players paths tokens easily identifiable from one another. The road tokens whilst functional are a little bland in contrast to the rest of the components. The campsite boards are large and detailed and it is easy to keep track of the round using the screen printed wooden meeple included. The main board has three cut out sections allowing the card holders to be placed in them and not move when bumped and cut outs on each side of the board allowing player markers to be slotted into them. Overall, great quality components with striking artwork.

Gameplay

The aim of the game is to have the most victory points after 6 rounds (8 if playing with 4 players). Players will take turns placing all their path tokens one by one until all path tokens are placed and the round ends. Each path token can be placed for its top or bottom action. If you place the marker in one of the notches on the main board you perform its top action, this involves taking a card from the board a number of spaces away shown on the path tile and adding it to your hand. You may then play a card from your hand into your area (if possible). Ground cards have no requirements and may simply be placed in a new column from your other cards and contain a ground symbol and a card symbol. You can have at most 10 of these cards in your play area. Observation cards have requirement symbols that must be visible on cards in your meadow area in order to be played and must be placed onto one of the requirement symbols covering it up. Your card columns must start with a ground card but can have any number of observation cards. Some requirements require adjacent column symbols and these must be placed in an adjacent column of the required symbol. You may, when playing a card, discard two cards from your hand to ignore one requirement symbol but you cannot ignore all requirements in this way.

Landscape cards require roads and potential other symbols, in order to play these cards you must have the required symbols and have to flip a road token placing the card above it. Discovery cards require landscape tiles and potential other symbols and must be placed over free landscape cards in your area. Instead of placing a path marker into a notch on the main board you may place it into a notch on the campsite board. Doing this gives you access to the special action shown on the path markers. These include taking any face up card from the main board, gaining two road tokens, playing two cards from your hand and looking at three cards from any deck and keeping one. You can alternatively place a path marker onto a bench and play a card from your hand. When you take a special action on the campsite board, before, during or after performing the action you may claim a goal if you meet the requirements. If you have the two symbols shown in your play area you may place a bonus token onto the space between them if it is free (starting with the 2 then the 3 and finally the 4). At the end of the round players collect their path markers and after half of the rounds have been completed the S deck is changed for the N deck and all the cards are refreshed. At the end of the game players total up the points from their played cards and their bonus tokens placed on the campsite board with the highest score winning. Ties are broken by the most played cards. The turns in this game flow very naturally with you simply taking cards and playing them into your play area. The game plays 1 to 4 players.

Theme and Game Length

The game has a very pleasant theme of you exploring nature and observing animals in their natural habitat. The path markers help with the theme as you are searching for things in the meadow. Playing animals also require quite thematic things in order to appear in your landscape like small birds requiring berries or bugs and larger birds require small animals to eat. It would probably be more thematic if the things you observed went straight into your tableau or if you were developing photos of things you had seen instead to explain why the cards are in your hand first. The average playtime of the game is about 20 minutes per player with experienced gamers and about 30 minutes with less experienced players. The game plays well at 2 players and I would happily play at 3 as more cards will cycle, though I would be reluctant to play at 4 as I think the game may go on a bit too long for the decisions it offers. The solo game is easy to play and manage with a bot to beat and a score threshold to meet as well. A solo board decides where other markers randomly drawn from a stack go and what cards it automatically plays.

Strategy

The main way to score points in this game is from playing cards into your tableau. You can also score points from the playing your bonus tokens on the campsite board and the requirements listed for these placements should drive your card choices. Placing these bonus tokens requires two specific symbols in your play area so you should be on the lookout for the symbols randomly placed there at the start of the game. In most turns you should be placing you path markers onto the main board with you using your smaller numbers first as these have the least utility. You should try to play a card as well as drafting one from the main board and sometimes this may be the card you picked up as you build towards a bigger points card. The special actions, whilst powerful, are more situational and you should use them at the optimal times and preferably also place a bonus token along with performing the action.

The N cards have much larger requirements and in the first half of the game you should build up several different symbols giving you the best chance of playing these cards when they are dealt out. Some of the symbols are much rarer than others in the deck and when you play cards you should cover the more common symbol where possible. The rulebook shows the distribution of these symbols and I would always show this to newer players so they don’t get themselves stuck early on in the game. In order to give yourself the best chance of not covering these symbols you want to have several flatter columns rather than one or two larger ones. I have found the landscape cards easier to play as long as you have roads and if you are struggling to meet requirements of cards you have, it is sometimes worth pivoting to playing these cards. However, these don’t stack in columns like the discovery cards so you will need to get more roads to keep playing these cards. There have been no runaway leader problems in the games I have played with scores being very close. Newer players can be competitive with experienced players so long as they know the rarity of symbols. The game has a lot of replayability with lots of unique cards with different requirements and these will come out in a different order each game. The requirements to place bonus point markers will also be different each game. The game ends after a fixed number of rounds and is very easy to see coming and plan ahead for.

Accessibility

The game is lightweight with simple actions to perform and resolve with some added depth in how you place your cards and what symbols you cover. Players can get in your way and take cards you want so you need to plan ahead and have backup plans if the card you wanted is taken. The game is exceptionally easy to teach and understand with clear iconography. The rulebook is excellent, very clearly presented with lots of more complex card placement examples for clarity. The back of the rulebook also has a nice turn summary for newer players. Each card can also be looked up in a glossary which is a nice touch and adds an educational aspect to the game. The game can take up quite a bit of table space with the 2 main boards and each players area can get quite long rather than wide so you should leave enough room for tableaus to grow.

Final Thoughts

Meadow is a great card drafting tableau game with a stunning table presence. This is the kind of game that I can teach anyone and it is perfect for newer players as the card art will also draw them in. This is one of the best looking games in the market and I am glad that they have also included card holders making the game easier to set up and put away. The game doesn’t really do anything novel but is easy to lay and very relaxing and has a surprising amount of hidden depth. Covering your symbols is a deep decision with you losing access to that symbol to play other cards and if you don’t plan carefully you can leave yourself a bit stuck. The solo game is also very well designed with minimal effort needed for the other player. A solid entry to the card drafting tableau building genre.

7.5/10

If you enjoyed this review please leave a thumbs up and also think out about checking out one of the 130+ reviews available on my blog (with pictures), Silver Duck Reviews, and subscribing to let you know when new reviews go live.

More Bang for Your Buck: Meadow or Living Forest?: Definitely a contender for us for game of the year 2021 is Meadow by Rebel Studio. Such a fun mechanic drafting meadow cards into your personnel stacked tableau with dual purpose action selection markers that also let you gain other actions and bonuses like road tokens, blind draw deck mining or double card placements when the meadow market isn't to your liking. Fabulous artwork too that never repeats on any of the myriad of cards. Only bummer is the odd card size is rather difficult to sleeve and tracking down a copy of the currently while it is between printing is a challenge. For us this is very reminiscent of the Everdell experience without quite so much set up or AP. Definitely looking forward to the expansion next year to add additional variety as we've already opened each of the extra card content packs.

How Meadow Compares to Living Forest

Played Living Forest by Ludonaute Games and Meadow by Rebel Studio both in sequence several times recently to fully evaluate them side by side. Comparably themed, but each are rather unique. Living Forest is one part Mystic Vale press your luck deck management without the card crafting and one part Meadow card market manipulation. Only in Meadow the cards you acquire are chained in your personal tableau to earn VP while in Living Forest there are no VP and the cards help you race to the end game trigger of 12 trees, fires or flowers. Both games feature a central "campfire" board that in Meadow serves for bonus actions and VP opportunities while providing extra actions and a chance to steal tokens from your opponents in Living Forest. Rules wise each is easy to learn and teach from a well laid out and mostly clear set of instructions. Each have wonderful illustrations, play out in under an hour, perfect for families, but also with great decisions for gamers. Despite their similarities we highly recommend both games. If you can get just one and prefer fantasy themes then Living Forest is for you while Meadow would be the pick if water colors depicting animals and scenery on your afternoon stroll more appeals to you
Thank you for this. The determining factor for me was the play time, so if they're relatively similar, 40 minutes works a lot better for us than 60+.
We played both several times again this afternoon. With a half dozen or more plays each now we always finish in 45-60 mins for both titles with two players.
If you are playing a 2-player game, Meadow seems to be the one to get? (based on the votes of players)
Or what do you think?
Yeah I'd probably go with Meadow for exclusively 2P games esp with the new water expansion.

Meadow: Once upon a time there was a raven…: Meadow: Once upon a time there was a raven…

Imagine: you are taking a hike in nature. There are many ways to do that. I’ll describe two.

Hike number one. You search for a good area to start walking and you prepare yourself thoroughly and set out all of your goals and expectations. Today you will really spot that one raven, for example, or finally see a red deer, or find a real treasure hidden somewhere. You search in a targeted manner, with binoculars or detectors. You don't let anything distract you, you have a higher goal and that's what you go for. Disappointment is ingrained, but you don't accept that, because you must and will find that red deer, that raven or that jewel.

Hike number two. You just go outside and walk. You simply like to look around you and be surprised by what you hear and see. You get lost a bit, got no idea where you are, but you come across all kinds of things. A group of crows that perform the most beautiful aerial shenanigans. A frightened deer that continues to look you in the eyes mesmerized, an abandoned cuddly toy or gem among the fallen leaves. And because you just walk and keep your eyes and mind open, you get lucky sometimes and see that red deer walking, or you’ ll hear those ravens croaking, or find lost binoculars. But even without that, you’ll still be satisfied with the walk.

Usually I start with hike number one, but I luckily end up walking hike number two very often. Hike number two is Meadow. If you don't search for it, you will find it.



Anyway. On the road.

I saw the box and thought: “hey: Beatrix Potter”. You know, those British-ish frumpy little books about two naughty mice and stuff. Liked them as a child, by the way.
The theme, the artwork, the whole look and feel reminded me of Everdell (also with a meadow) and Wingspan (also with a tableau of nature cards in front of you). Nature as a theme is clearly on the rise in the game world. I'm happy with that. By the way, nothing to the detriment of all the knights, explorers, settlers and spacemen in our house.

Actually, Meadow should have been a blind purchase for me, but that was not the case. The reviews, the pictures, it really didn't do much for me. Until my wife suddenly came up with it: “that's a game for us dude, why don't you buy it?”. - “Well um… um… because we already have Wingspan? And… we don't play Everdell that often anymore..?” Well, that went back and forth a few times, with a conclusion that we saw coming from miles away: I cycled to my local game store. We had to try, didn't we?

Setup and first impression
I did like that box. Pretty cool weasel there on the front. Or was it an ermine? Fortunately, I was able to look it up immediately in the extensive register that comes with the game. I think that's already one-zero for the game: when there is so much extra information to be found about the cards you play. The cards are also beautifully illustrated.
The next step was to assemble the four card trays together with one of our sons. Those trays fit most conveniently into the recesses of the standard insert and game board. Those trays are actually quite ingenious, because it makes time to set up negligible.

The closed envelopes stand out. They contain extra cards that can be added to the game later. For example, if you have been to a nature reserve for the first time, or if you have finally had an encounter with a wild animal. We already met all the conditions, but we still left those envelopes closed for a while. Nice for later. Cleverly designed too, because looking forward to something is always good, right?

Rules and first games
The rules are easy to read, aided by a cute robin who points out the details and gives you tips for your first game. The first few games were just plain fun. Everything clicked right away. Looking at all those available cards, understanding all the symbols, taking the cards you need, puzzling what card to play, discovering that the natural food chain is perfectly integrated into gameplay, finding yourself in an exciting race for points, and so on…it almost felt like that nice hike in which you indeed discover everything.



Gameplay
Meadow is a set collection game, combined with tableau building, resulting in as many points as possible. The systems are of course nothing new. But the combination in Meadow is just right for us and combined with the beautiful artwork it makes for a very pleasant game. The points system has been refined in such a way that no major differences arise. In our first 15 plays we did not have a runaway leader once. Playing Meadow remains exciting until the end.

You can almost always do something useful in your turns. You start with five cards and there are also 16 face up in your meadow. Empty spots are immediately filled, so the display refreshes pretty fast and gives new options every turn. I think that system is well balanced.
The trick is that every turn you have to try to play a card in addition to taking a card from the meadow. One you just picked up, or one you already had in your hand. In our experience, this is almost always possible. That is, if you make maximum use of what is available and do not sit down, wait for the right card and mourn for what is not available. There we have it: are we on hike number one or two?

In addition to the card meadow, there is another board, one with extra options for points: the campfire board. If you have two specific symbols in front of you (each game they’re different), you can place a point token on that board. There may be some imbalance in that: if you have completed one of the assignments, you are automatically halfway through the next assignment. It regularly happens that whoever takes the first bonus can also put down the second and sometimes even third chip fairly quickly afterwards. That is 9 points in total, and in a game where the point distribution is otherwise very balanced and you can therefore not make big points, that sometimes turns out to be annoying: you can no longer catch up with the 'king bonus packer'.



Playing time
The two of us can finish Meadow in 45 minutes or less than an hour. Doable, we think, and it fits nicely with the 'middleweight' of this game. With 3 and 4 players that can be different: each player takes half an hour of playing time. Sometimes more, when you play with someone who spends endless time puzzling in their head before taking a card. Meadow can last a bit too long with more than two players.

Theme
As mentioned, you take a nature walk in Meadow in which you encounter all kinds of surprises. Animals of course, but also special and less special plants, hiking material forgotten by other hikers, a mysterious forest house, and so on. Nice, but of course it remains a board game, so here too the game is an abstraction of the actual walk. After all, it's about the points, not the walk. But of course I wouldn't write such an extensive introduction on this review if I didn't think the theme works well in Meadow.

Replayability
Despite the large amount of cards, I don't know if the replayability is that high. In that respect, this game falls into the category of games that approximately will 'play out' after 30 to 50 games, because you have figured out all possible combinations and come across nothing surprising any longer. Well, we're not there yet, of course. And I think 30 to 50 games means that the replayability is high enough for most boardgamers?

Conclusion
Meadow is a beautiful game. It’s on the table in no time, it’s played within an hour (at least with two) and has a relaxed gameplay that still requires sufficient thinking and puzzle work. I can imagine that you can experience the same problems with Meadow as with (for instance) Wingspan or Everdell: your starting hand is disappointing, you don't see any good cards face up and you have to wait for them to finally appear. But really, if that’s the case, you're playing the game wrong. Or it's just not your kind of game. Meadow is not (only) a game in which you get the most out of a chosen strategy and therefore continue to build from your given starting point. Meadow is a game where you react situationally to what is available to you. There is a bit of acceptance in that: you cannot completely control the future and everybody can win, but you try to make the best of what you encounter. And sometimes you still see that perfect combination that you can play. As long as you keep your eyes open. There’ s that hike again.

And those ravens? I still haven't seen them recently. But they live happily ever after, I’m sure. Whether I go for a hike or not.
Great review!

Do you think the 30-50 plays from Meadow will be more than you got from Everdell?
I'm so happy I spotted & bought "Meadow". I knew right away it would be a top notch game! Great review, btw.
Cindy K
@DesertRambler
Great review!

Do you think the 30-50 plays from Meadow will be more than you got from Everdell?
Thanks. And don't know yet, both games are still around. Everdell is a typical "play lot of it in the beginning and after that still once in a while" for us. I Think Meadow will be the same?
Pura Vida
@Pura_Vida
In addition to the card meadow, there is another board, one with extra options for points: the campfire board. If you have two specific symbols in front of you (each game they’re different), you can place a point token on that board. There may be some imbalance in that: if you have completed one of the assignments, you are automatically halfway through the next assignment. It regularly happens that whoever takes the first bonus can also put down the second and sometimes even third chip fairly quickly afterwards. That is 9 points in total, and in a game where the point distribution is otherwise very balanced and you can therefore not make big points, that sometimes turns out to be annoying: you can no longer catch up with the 'king bonus packer'.
I've only played a couple of times, but just wanted to say that so far this has not been imbalanced in our experience. In a three-player game last night, I was third player and despite having many of the right symbols, I kept getting pipped to the goals a turn or two before I could grab them. In the end I only got my 2/3 tokens down, filling up the spaces where both other players had claimed their 2/3/4. But I'd concentrated on efficient play, getting more and higher-scoring cards into my meadow, and narrowly won despite being five points behind on the campfire goals.
Love this review and your opening remarks were appreciated and clever.

Also I feel exactly the way you do about the extra card packets. I like to savor things like that.
“We already met all the conditions, but we still left those envelopes closed for a while. Nice for later. Cleverly designed too, because looking forward to something is always good, right?”
Sharon Lockwood
@Hibble68
Love this review and your opening remarks were appreciated and clever.

Also I feel exactly the way you do about the extra card packets. I like to savor things like that.
“We already met all the conditions, but we still left those envelopes closed for a while. Nice for later. Cleverly designed too, because looking forward to something is always good, right?”
Thank you, Sharon! And keep on hiking/playing!

Goodbye, Splendor...: So I'm very late to the 'Meadow Party' - only picking this game up at Christmas, but I felt the need to write a review of this game (spoiler alert... I love it).

Like many, I spend hours watching video reviews, playthroughs of games including Meadow. I knew it looked like a game I'd like - I wouldn't have put it on my wish list otherwise.

Was I surprised when I got this out the box, punched out all the pieces and got it to the table? No. The art is stunning, yes. I knew this already, no surprises here.

Was I surprised after I played my first (solo) game of this? Absolutely.

My wife and I have played countless games of Splendor. We love the simplicity, the pacing, the thinking ahead and decision making that goes into every move. It's a firm favourite evening game to play when the kids are down.
I'm not sure it'll be coming out of the box for a long time.... maybe even - never.

There are 2 main reasons for this:

Reason 1 - BONUS ACTIONS

Meadow IS Splendor, but better. I didn’t realise this until I played it myself. It’s not so different that it becomes a really complex beast which only shares a few similarities. It is Splendor with a few extra bits which make it a bit more 'gamey'.
In Splendor, you take chips and buy cards with them. Other than branching out to reserve a card for future use, there are no more options. I'm not complaining, it's a fantastic game because of that.
In Meadow, you use your existing cards (icons) to buy (play) new cards into your tableau. However, you also have bonus actions if you'd rather do something else. I feel that this second option is what makes the game shine.
Even if you don't use the bonus actions - which often I don't! So for those not really into games as much or if you don’t care about that, you can ignore it.
But just having that extra freedom - additional option, is awesome.
As an example, it's my turn and I have a handful of cards - some ready to play as I have the necessary icons already in my tableau. There aren't really any cards I need in the meadow, however I can instead place one of my tokens into the bonus board and instead of taking a card from the meadow I can play two of my cards into my tableau, or take some road tokens (used for other types of cards).
You can never get stuck. There is always something good to do. I really like that – it helps give the game a relaxing, but still engaging & puzzling, style.

Reason 2 – EVER CHANGING TABLEAU

The second main reason this is better than Splendor is that because you are using card icons to play other cards into your tableau, you are hiding icons as you go, therefore what you can play in future turns can be positively or negatively influenced by a card you play on this turn. This works brilliantly.
As an example, I have a 3 point card I can play – it will cover up either a bird or a tree icon to play. I choose to cover up the tree icon. That icon has now gone. On susbsequent turns I cannot use that icon anymore. If something requires a tree icon I have to go and get another card with the icon and play it into my tableau. In Splendor, your tableau only ever gets better and playing new, more expensive cards only gets easier. It’s a nice game arc which again works well, but this is much, much better.

Summary

If you enjoy Splendor, you owe it to yourself to try this game. It really is (in my opinion), that good.
If you have played this game, I’d love to hear your thoughts too.
Hi Ryan, I agree on the similarities of both games, but there is one difference: Meadow ends after the last turn in the last round; Splendor ends when one player reaches 15 points (and everyone else has had an equalizing turn). I find Meadow more beautiful and I think the better game, but this 'race to end' makes Splendor stay.
I never thought "Meadow" as being like "Splendor" - You are correct though. I agree - "Good bye Splendor" - Huge differences are "Meadow"'s very relaxing, enjoyable, re-playable, beautiful and outstanding!
For what it's worth, I never enjoyed Splendor but I adore Meadow.
I enjoyed Splendor pretty much every time I played it to the point I was seriously considering buying a copy for myself. Then I bought Meadow ... While I would not refuse a game of Splendor, I am definitely not buying it.
Thanks for your review! So happy to hear you enjoyed Meadow so much
I just received my copy of Meadow today. Played a couple of games and very much enjoyed it. However, it’s not “goodbye, Splendor” for us.

[German] Meadow: Im Reich der Natur Review: Weitere Inhalte gibt es auf meinem Blog:
https://spieltroll.de

Brettspiele mit Naturthemen sind momentan ja äußerst beliebt. Überall sprießen sie wie Pilze aus dem Boden und verwöhnen unsere Augen mit wunderbaren Tier- und Pflanzenillustrationen. Meadow: Im Reich der Natur kam schon vor einiger Zeit auf den Markt und vor allem kam es für viele recht überraschend aus dem Nichts. Nicht viele hatten das Spiel auf der Rechnung und dennoch erfreut sich das Spiel, seltsamerweise bei den Geeks und Vielspielern, wachsender Begeisterung. Warum ich das ein wenig seltsam finde und was es mit dem Spiel überhaupt so auf sich hat erkläre ich euch in der Rezension. Nur soviel vorweg. Meadow ist soetwas wie eine Liebeserklärung an die Natur, die der Autor Klemens Kalicki für sein Kind in ein Spiel gepackt hat, um es mit ihm gemeinsam zu erfahren und ihm so die Natur näher zu bringen. Ob das funktioniert, sei erstmal dahingestellt, dazu werde ich mich beim Fazit etwas ausführlicher äußern.

Worum geht es?

Das Thema ist ganz klar die Natur als solches und damit ist gemeint, die Natur, die jeder vor seiner Haustür finden kann, wenn er irgendwo wohnt, wo es sie noch gibt. In Großstädten gibt es sie vielleicht nur noch in Gärten und Parks, aber wer auf dem Land wohnt, braucht nur vor die Tür zu treten und kann sie unweit erfahren. Soll heißen hier geht es um Pflanzen, Kräuter, Pilze, Wanderwege und Tiere, die wir bei uns vorfinden können und keine Exoten. Rein spielerisch haben wir es hier mit einem Worker-Placement/Drafting-Mix zu tun, indem auch gleich noch eine Prise Set Collection verbaut wurde. Gewinnen kann man Meadow, wenn man nach einer vorgegebenen Rundenanzahl die meisten Siegpunkte vorweisen kann.

Wie läuft das ab?

Vor dem ersten Spiel muss man ersteinmal ein paar Kartenhalter aus Pappe zusammenbauen. Diese sorgen aber dafür, das man später auf dem Tisch sehr komfortabel die Karten ziehen kann und die Häufchen nicht auf dem Tableau hinundherrutschen. Meadow ist Dank des schönen Inserts auch sehr schnell aufgebaut. Man muss sich nur im Klaren darüber sein, dass Meadow sehr viel Platz auf dem Tisch einnimmt, denn nicht nur die Spielbretter benötigen ihren Platz, nein, auch die Bereiche der Spieler*innen werden im Spielverlauf immer mehr mit Karten ausgelegt. Zu Spielbeginn lässt sich allerdings schon erahnen, dass man etwas mehr Platz als normal benötigen wird.

Es gibt grundsätzlich ersteinmal zwei Spielbretter. Den Wanderplan, auf dem zu jeder Zeit sechzehn Karten ausliegen, die wir aufnehmen können und den Lagerplan, an dem wir bestimmte Sonderaktionen ausführen und uns Punkte für die Schlußwertung sichern können. Auf dem Wanderplan stehen zusätzlich die Kartenhalter und geben uns zu erkennen welche Karten in welche Reihe gehören. Die Karten haben nämlich auf der Rückseite immer einen großen Buchstaben für die Himmelsrichtungen. Die Karten für den Westen gehören nach links, der Osten natürlich nach rechts und der Süden befüllt die beiden mittleren Bahnen. Zur Hälfte des Spiels wird der Südstapel gegen die fortgeschritteneren Nordkarten getauscht. Jeder Kartenstapel ist für besondere Kartentypen da. So finden wir zum Beispiel nur im Oststapel die Bodenkarten, die wir als Grundlage für unsere Auslage benötigen. Der Weststapel ist unterdessen der einzige in dem wir Landschafts- und Fundkarten finden können. Zu der Bedeutung dieser Karten komme ich gleich, nur Geduld!

Der Lagerplan ist annähernd rund und zeigt uns in der Mitte einen Kreis aus Baumstümpfen und Tischchen um ein Lagerfeuer. Hier legen wir zufällig gezogene Symbolplättchen auf die Tischchen, so dass die Baumstümpfe frei bleiben. Auf diese Baumstümpfe legen wir im Spielverlauf unsere Punktechips, die uns zum Spielende mit Punkten versorgen, wenn wir die beiden benachbarten Symbole in unserer Auslage wiederfinden. Diese Chips dürfen wir allerdings nur dann legen, wenn die Symbole uns derzeit in der Auslage befinden, danach darf man sie ruhig wieder überbauen.

Beide Spielbretter haben an ihren Rändern Einkerbungen. Auf dem Wanderplan sind sie Spitz und am Lagerplan eckig. In diese Aussparungen passen die beiden Enden unserer fünf (im spiel zu viert nur vier) Wanderplättchen. Diese Plättchen sind unser Spielmaterial und zeigen neben einer Nummerierung von eins bis vier, sowie einem Fragezeichen, je eine Sonderaktion. Zusätzlich zu den Wanderplättchen bekommen wir als Spieler*in zusätzlich drei Bonuschips mit den Werten zwei bis vier, die wir im Spielverlauf, wie erwähnt auf den Lagerplan legen können. Auf dem Lagerplan findet sich zusätzlich noch der Rundenzähler, auf dem wir eine Wandererfigur die Runden anzeigen lassen. In der Mitte dieser Leiste ist eine Sanduhr abgebildet, die uns daran erinnern soll, die Kartenauslage auszutauschen. Zusätzlich zu den Wander- und Bonusplättchen bekommt jede*r Spieler*in noch ein Wegeplättchen und eine Startbodenkarte. Diese Karte ist doppelseitig und zu Spielbeginn muss man sich entscheiden, welche Seite man in seine Auslage legen möchte. Eine Seite zeigt das Symbol für einen Wald und einen Käfer und die andere Seite eine Wiese mit Wurmsymbol. Diese Karte legt man vor sich aus und in einem gewissen Abstand darüber legt man das Wegeplättchen mit der Seite, die ein rundes Symbol zeigt ebenfalls aus.

Als letzte Handlung zur Spielvorbereitung bekommt jede*r Spieler*in noch ein paar Handkarten und dazu suchen sich diese der Reihe nach eine Reihe der Auslage aus und nehmen die vier dort liegenden Karten auf die Hand. Zusätzlich zieht jede*r Spieler*in noch eine weitere Karte vom N-Stapel, so dass man insgesamt fünf Karten auf der Hand hält. In der Erstpartie kann man alternativ die Karten auch komplett blind von den Stapeln ziehen.

Der Spielablauf ist dann äußerst simpel und besteht aus Runden in denen jede*r Spieler*in solange jeweils eine Aktion ausführt, bis alle Wanderplättchen aufgebraucht sind. Dann werden alle wieder an die Spieler*innen zurückgegeben und eine neue Runde startet, bis der Wanderer auf dem Lagerplan nicht mehr weiterziehen kann und das Spiel zu Ende ist. Normalerweise sind das sechs Runden, nur im Spiel zu viert sind es acht. Ist man an der Reihe, muss ein Wanderplättchen an einen der Pläne platziert werden. Die Plättchen passen, wie bereits erwähnt mit einem ihren Enden in die Aussparungen der Pläne. entscheidet man sich für den Wanderplan, so ist die auf dem Plättchen aufgedruckte Sonderaktion egal und nur die Zahl relevant. Die Karte, die nämlich soviele Positionen vom Plättchen entfernt in der Reihe oder Spalte liegt, die der aufgedruckten Zahl entspricht, nehme ich auf die Hand. Zusätzlich darf man eine Karte in seine Auslage spielen. Es muss nicht die gerade erhaltene Karte sein.

Spiele ich das Plättchen an den Lagerplan, so darf ich die aufgedruckte Sonderaktion ausführen und zusätzlich habe ich die Chance eines meiner Bonusplättchen auzulegen, wenn ich eines der Ziele erfülle. Die vier möglichen Sonderaktionen sind das Nehmen von zwei Wegeplättchen, das Nehmen einer beliebigen Karte vom Wanderplan, das Ausspielen von bis zu zwei Karten in unsere Auslage und die Möglichkeit sich die drei obersten Karten eines Stapels anzuschauen und eine davon auf die Hand zu nehmen. Die anderen Karten wandern unter den Stapel. Sollte man für sich keine sinnvolle Aktion erkennen, so darf man sein Wanderplättchen auch auf eine der Bänke auf dem Plan legen und einfach eine Karte ausspielen.

Ziel ist es für uns mit Hilfe dieser Aktionen Karten in unsere Auslage zu bringen. Zu Beginn haben wir nur die Startbodenkarte mit insgesamt zwei Symbolen. Diese Symbole sind wichtig, denn wir benötigen sie, um weitere Karten auszuspielen. Nur weitere Bodenkarten dürfen wir ohne Vorraussetzungen in unsere Auslage legen. Insgesamt zehn Stück von ihnen dürfen wir nebeneinander auslegen. Sie zeigen jeweils ein Symbol am unteren Rand, dass ihr Ökosystem ausweist (z. B. Wald oder Sumpf – insgesamt gibt es fünf unterschiedliche). Wollen wir die sogenannten Beobachtungskarten ausspielen, so erfordern diese immer irgendwelche Symbole in unserer Auslage. Natürlich bringen auch diese Karten wieder neue Symbole mit und diese finden wir in der oberen linken Ecke der Karte. Darunter, etwas kleiner, sind die Symbole abgebildet, die wir in unserer Auslage benötigen. Erfüllen wir die Voraussetzungen, so spielen wir die Beobachtungskarte so auf eine unserer ausliegenden Karten, das sie die Symbole verdeckt. Die Karte muss dabei auf eine Karte gespielt werden, die eines der geforderten Symbole zeigt. Zusätzlich zu diesen Symbolen sind die Karten auch noch Punkte wert. Die Wertigkeit befindet sich dabei in einem kleinen Blatt.

Dann gibt es da auch noch den Bereich mit den Wegeplättchen in unserer Auslage. Ab und an tauchen auf dem Wanderplan Landschafts- und Fundkarten auf, die wir recht schnell daran erkennen, dass sie im Querformat bedruckt sind. Landschaftskarten benötigen ebenfalls Symbole aus unserer Auslage. Zusätzlich ist eines der Symbole immer auch das eines Landschaftsplättchens. Wollen wir die Karte ausspielen, benötigen wir also eines dieser Plättchen das uns noch ein solches Symbol zeigt. Wir spielen die Karte direkt über das Plättchen aus und drehen es anschließend um. Wollen wir weitere Landschaften ausspielen benötigen wir also zunächst weitere Wegeplättchen. Die Fundkarten repräsentieren Dinge die wir auf unseren Wanderungen finden und benötigen wie alle anderen Karten Symbole aus unserer Auslage. Diese Karten werden immer auf eine Landschaftskarte gelegt und decken so die Symbole der Landschaftskarte ab.

So spielen wir uns durch das gesamte Spiel. Sind alle Plättchen in einer Runde aufgebraucht, so startet eine neue Runde, bis der Wanderer die Sanduhr passiert. Dann wird die Auslage des Wanderplans komplett geleert, der N-Stapel ersetzt den S-Stapel und neue Karten werden ausgelegt. Die zweite Hälfte beginnt bis alle Runden beendet wurden. Dann zählen alle Spieler*innen die Punkte und ein*e Sieger*in wird ermittelt.

Zusätzlich sei noch erwähnt, dass Meadow eine Solovariante bereithält und sich einige Umschläge im Spiel befinden, die man erst öffenen soll, wenn bestimmte Ereignisse eintreten, wie zum Beispiel Weihnachten, oder wenn man mindestens fünf Wolfssymbole in einem Spiel hatte. In diesen Umschlägen stellt das Spiel uns weitere Karten bereit um das Spiel etwas abwechslungsreicher zu gestalten.

Das Fazit

Klemens Kalicki ist ein außergewöhnliches Spiel gelungen, soviel steht fest. Das ganze Werk ist ausgesprochen hübsch und ich kann mir vor meinem inneren Auge durchaus vorstellen, wie er das Spiel mit seinem Sohn spielt, der ihn wohl dazu inspiriert hat und mit dem er viel Zeit vor der Tür verbracht haben muss. Einiges daran kommt mir dennoch, ich will nicht sagen seltsam, aber zumindest ungewöhnlich vor. Manches an Meadow ist einfach nicht ganz stimmig. Das Thema, sowie die Anmutung deutet erstmal stark auf ein Familienspiel hin und obwohl es natürlich möglich ist, Meadow auch mit Kindern zu spielen, glaube ich das es für diese ein wenig zu komplex und vor allem zu lang ist. Das wiederum könnte erklären, warum das Spiel von Vielspielern soviel Zuspruch erhält und hier steige ich dann aus. Meadow ist ein Spiel das für mich irgendwo zwischen ambitioniertem Familienspiel und seichtem Kennerspiel pendelt. Ja, es ist hübsch und die ersten Partien sind wirklich schön. Irgendwann aber macht sich schleichend ein wenig Langeweile breit, denn Meadow hat im Prinzip keine Abwechslung zu bieten. Damit meine ich jetzt nicht die netten Umschläge mit den neuen Karten, sondern eher die Tatsache, dass es dann doch nicht genug spielerische Abwechslung bietet, um die fast 90 Minuten Spielzeit zu rechtfertigen. Eigentlich machen wir immer das gleiche und bis zum Schluß entsteht hier kein Spannugsbogen. Die erste Aktion des Spiels fühlt sich wie die letzte an. Wir sammeln Karten, die uns die Symbole bringen, die wir benötigen und spielen sie aus, um weitere Karten, die wir gesammelt haben auszuspielen, die uns wieder Symbole bringen, die wir für Karten brauchen die wir gesammelt haben usw. Das macht zu Beginn und in den ersten zwei, drei Partien auch noch Spaß, dann bemerkt man aber auch plötzlich, dass das alles ist und die hübsche Aufmachung täuscht uns nicht mehr über das zunehmend lanweiliger werdende Spielprinzip hinweg. Wäre Meadow nach einer Dreiviertelstunde zu Ende wäre wahrscheinlich alles gut, aber für 90 Minuten ist mir persönlich das zu wenig und ich würde eher etwas anderes spielen.

Warum das Spiel dann bei den Vielspielern so beliebt ist, kann ich euch auch nicht beantworten. Vielleicht erkenne ich irgendetwas nicht, oder habe es öfter gespielt als diese und bin schon früher da angekommen, wo andere erst noch ankommen werden. Kurz um, ich verstehe das nicht. Meadow ist ein Spiel das mir persönlich einfach nicht genug bietet, dass ich aber in den ersten Partien sehr genossen habe. Ein wunderschöner Zeitvertreib für ein paar Stunden, bevor es mich dann doch schnell zu langweilen begann. Per se also durchaus kein schlechtes Spiel und eines das man auf einem Spieleabend durchaus mal gespielt haben sollte, aber für mich eben auch keines mit einer gesteigerten Langzeitmotivation. Schade eigentlich… Was ich aber dennoch besonders lobend hervorheben möchte ist das Kartenverzeichnis des Spiels, das als extra Heft daherkommt und in der jede Karte aufgeführt ist. Hier bekommt man ein paar wissenswerte Informationen, die man so mitspielenden Kindern (und Erwachsenen natürlich) gut vermitteln kann.

Verlag: Rebel Studio / Asmodee
Autor(en): Klemens Kalicki
Illustrator(en): Karolina Kijak, Katarzyna Fiebiger
Erscheinungsjahr: 2021
Spieleranzahl: 1 – 4 Spieler
Dauer: 60-90 Minuten

Weitere Inhalte gibt es auf meinem Blog:
https://spieltroll.de

Review: Meadow by Spellenplank [EN/NL]: Read the Dutch review here!

In Meadow you collect the most beautiful animal species, landscapes and discoveries to gather the most beautiful meadow.

Publisher: Rebel Studio
Playtime: 60 minutes
Cost: €40
Players: 1-4



Game explanation

In Meadow you collect the most beautiful species, landscapes and discoveries. These are then placed in your meadow and earn you points at the end.

Meadow is very easy to set up. Each player gets 5 path tokens. You use these tokens to take turns. To fill the supply you place the W, S and E card holder on the left, center and right respectively on the designated cutout. Then you place the cards face up on all the empty spaces in that column. For the S cards, this is 2 columns. Next to this, you prepare the campfire board by placing the round marker in the first position. Random bonus markers will also be placed around the campfire, these can score you bonus points. Once this is set up each player gets a ground card and you have to take a row of cards from the supply. The supply is then refilled after which other players also take a row of cards. In addition to these cards, you must also take an N card. Now you are ready to play!



The goal of the game is to collect as many points in your meadow as possible. Each card has one or more properties. However, you can only play cards if you meet the conditions of the card. These conditions are listed under the property. For example, you may need to have a bird card already in your meadow to be able to play a certain card. If you do not have this, you cannot play the card and you will need other cards first. Played cards must always be placed over the card with the required property, you will no longer have that property. The game takes place in 6 rounds. In each round you can use 5 path tokens to perform actions. You can choose to perform a standard action or a special action.

Standard action: On each path token there is a number. You use this number to perform a standard action. You can place the token in one of the empty slots along the supply after which you take the card to which your number points. After taking a card, you may also immediately play a card in your meadow, provided, of course, that you meet the conditions. You must therefore pay close attention to which number you use where. In addition to meadow cards, you can also play a landscape card or an exploration card next to a road. For a landscape card you need an available road and the discovery card can only be played if you have an open landscape card. This can be useful if, for example, there are no cards left in the supply that you need.

Special action: To play a special action you place the path token at the campfire board. Depending on the number of players, you can only do this a few times per round. When you take a special action you look at the bottom part of the path token. There are 4 types of actions you can perform, namely: take a card of your choice, take 2 roads, take 3 cards and choose one or play up to 2 cards from your hand. Note that for the first 3 actions you may not play a card in your meadow. After you perform a special action, you may also place a bonus token on a tree trunk if you have both properties adjacent to it in your meadow. This may only be done 1 time per round.

When you reach the halfway point and start preparing for the 4th round you replace the S cards with N cards. These cards usually have more difficult conditions but also earn you more points!

After playing the 6th round, the game is over and you add up all the points in your meadow and campfire. The one with the most points has played the most beautiful meadow together and wins the game!



Our thoughts

Let's just start with an open door, Meadow is a beautiful game. The beautiful artwork is made to perfection and surpasses most games. The cards combine to form a beautiful whole and this makes your own meadow a gem no matter what.

Meadow is not only beautiful, the game is also well constructed and very accessible to different types of players. All actions are understandable and easy enough to explain to everyone. Meadow is simple in concept, but also offers enough depth for the experienced player. Meadow is a very tactical and strategic game, you have to plan ahead well because you always want to have enough properties in your meadow to be able to play new cards. This, in combination with the various action possibilities and the obtaining of bonus tokens, ensures that a game of Meadow offers enough challenge.

The game is very tactical and strategic, but also comes with a dose of luck. Especially at the end of the game, you have to be lucky that the right cards are in the supply. It can be very annoying that you had a perfect strategy and have a lot of cards in your meadow, but due to bad luck you can score little to no points in the last round. Of course you can try to anticipate this, but luck does come into play.

It is always a pleasure to put Meadow on the table. It's a game that you certainly won't get bored of anytime soon. Meadow looks beautiful and it never gets boring to look at all the beautiful cards. In addition, a game of Meadow does not take very long. This in combination with the fun game mechanics ensures that the game is often played with pleasure. Meadow deserves a place among your new favorite games, not only in terms of artwork, but also in terms of gameplay!



Playing with 2 players
Meadow has certainly thought of all player counts. There is a separate campfire board for the different player counts. This changes the number of bonus spaces available and the number of bonus path tokens you may lay each round.

Pros and cons
+ Beautiful artwork that has been implemented throughout the whole game
+ Inlay that fits everything
+ Extra envelopes that add even more to the game

- Sometimes you get stuck at the end if there are no good cards in the supply

This game has been kindly gifted to us by the publisher for review purposes

Read more reviews on our website!

Visit our instagram page!

Support us by buying us a ko-fi!

Meadow - Quick review by Tabletopping: Wander through nature and observe your surroundings, on the lookout for animals, plants and landscapes. Your goal is to collect these different types of cards in your own personal meadow, and to prove you are the most skilled observer!

1-4 players
60-90 minutes
Designer: Klemens Kalicki
Artists: Karolina Kijak & Katarzyna Fiebiger

Publisher: Rebel Studio



In Meadow, players take actions by placing a path token into an available notch of one of the two game boards:

1- The main board allows players to draw and play cards. When placing a path token here, the number shown on it determines which card you take; you count that number of spaces in the direction it points. Next you can also play a card, bearing in mind that most of the cards show requirements that must be visible in your meadow before you can play those new ones.

2- The second option is to place a path token next to the campfire board, and perform the special action shown on the token. These allow you to play or take additional cards, or to take road tokens that you’ll be needing to play a certain type of cards. You may also claim one of the goals when you have the required symbols visible in your meadow, giving you endgame points.

When playing cards, you can also opt to ignore one of the requirements by discarding 2 cards from your hand – A rather painful option as you really want to play those cards for the points they show, but sometimes some symbols may not come out, so they clearly came up with a solution for that.

After a certain number of rounds, depending on player count, the game ends and players tally their points shown on the cards they played and the goals they managed to claim!



Meadow is a treat for the eye – each card shows a beautiful scene which makes this game has a great table presence. The gameplay itself is pretty straightforward, as most of the time, you want to play cards showing symbols that you’ll need for other cards to play – it may feel a bit abstract, but then again they did an excellent job on blending the theme with the mechanics.

Overall, this is quite an enjoyable set collecting/tableau building game, and perfect to introduce new players to these mechanics. If you like games like these and/or you’re tired of playing Wingspan, make sure to give Meadow a try!



More reviews at: https://tabletopping.games/
Wouter Debisschop
@Tabletopping_Games
Wander through nature and observe your surroundings, on the lookout for animals, plants and landscapes. Your goal is to collect these different types of cards in your own personal meadow, and to prove you are the most skilled observer!

1-4 players
60-90 minutes
Designer: Klemens Kalicki
Artists: Karolina Kijak & Katarzyna Fiebiger

Publisher: Rebel Studio



In Meadow, players take actions by placing a path token into an available notch of one of the two game boards:

1- The main board allows players to draw and play cards. When placing a path token here, the number shown on it determines which card you take; you count that number of spaces in the direction it points. Next you can also play a card, bearing in mind that most of the cards show requirements that must be visible in your meadow before you can play those new ones.

2- The second option is to place a path token next to the campfire board, and perform the special action shown on the token. These allow you to play or take additional cards, or to take road tokens that you’ll be needing to play a certain type of cards. You may also claim one of the goals when you have the required symbols visible in your meadow, giving you endgame points.

When playing cards, you can also opt to ignore one of the requirements by discarding 2 cards from your hand – A rather painful option as you really want to play those cards for the points they show, but sometimes some symbols may not come out, so they clearly came up with a solution for that.

After a certain number of rounds, depending on player count, the game ends and players tally their points shown on the cards they played and the goals they managed to claim!



Meadow is a treat for the eye – each card shows a beautiful scene which makes this game has a great table presence. The gameplay itself is pretty straightforward, as most of the time, you want to play cards showing symbols that you’ll need for other cards to play – it may feel a bit abstract, but then again they did an excellent job on blending the theme with the mechanics.

Overall, this is quite an enjoyable set collecting/tableau building game, and perfect to introduce new players to these mechanics. If you like games like these and/or you’re tired of playing Wingspan, make sure to give Meadow a try!



More reviews at: https://tabletopping.games/
Thanks for this quick review! Great to hear you enjoyed Meadow
Great review, I have the game preordered and love the art. Question on the size of the cards, board and pieces - how small are they? In these pictures they seem quite small, are the cards euro mini size?
Brian Jones
@bclayj
Great review, I have the game preordered and love the art. Question on the size of the cards, board and pieces - how small are they? In these pictures they seem quite small, are the cards euro mini size?
The card size is 50x73

BGWC Review of Meadow: We often think that one of the most important features about board games, is art. Of course the gameplay has to be good and the game has to be well designed. But if the art is just not to your liking, no matter how good the game is, it will feel different. With Meadow, we fell in love with the art instantly, every little card being a unique small painting itself. We were just in awe when we were unboxing Meadow and couldn’t wait to play it. The art in this game in our opinion beat many, if not all the board games we have ever played. Big props to the illustrators Karolina Kijak and Katarzyna Fiebiger responsible for these amazing pieces of art.

Gameplay overview.

The set up for Meadow is thankfully very fast and easy. Place the game board on the table and place the card holders in the holes of the board. Then shuffle and place the card deck facedown in the following sequence: W-S-E. The N deck can be placed with it’s card holder above the main board. Fill the main board with faceup cards, following the arrows on the board. This is also very well explained and shown in the rulebook. Next, place the campfire board with the right amount of players, shuffle the goal tokens and randomly place them faceup on the boxes of the campfire board and place the round marker on the first rock of the round tracker. In a two player game, cover up two notches of the campfire board with the green block tokens provided. Each player can choose a color, takes five path tokens of their color and three bonus tokens of the matching color. Also take a road token and a two sided starting card. Then, starting with the last player, each player chooses a row on the main board and takes all of those four cards. Also take one card from the N deck. In the firsts game, it might be easier to deal four random cards from the corresponding deck to each player. Lastly, choose your starting side from the starting ground card, and place it in your Meadow area in front of you. Now you can begin creating you mini eco system.

On your turn, you must perform an action with one of your path tokens. The pointy top side of the path tokens are used for the main board to take and play cards. The flat bottom side of your path tokens are used for the campfire place to perform special actions and complete challenges. If you want to draw a card from the main board, you have to place a path token with the pointy side into one of the notches of the main board. Then count a number of spaces from the token, equal to the number showing on the path token to see what card you have to take. If you place a number three in the left upper corner for example, you can take the third card from the left in the top row. If you would place a one on the same spot, you would have to take the first card on the left side from the top row. The rulebook also shows good examples of this action with clear pictures. Always place a new card on an empty spot on the main board. Once you have drawn a card, you may also play a card in your play area.

To play a card in your Meadow area, you have to start with a ground card. Every eco system needs a place to grow, like a grass or rock ground. You can have up to ten ground cards and every new ground card needs to be placed adjacent to a previously played cards. Once played, you can’t move them anymore. Always keep the bottom symbols visible to see what ground cards you have. Once you have placed some ground cards, you can place observation cards on top of them. Observation cards can present flowers, animals or plants for example and they can start growing on the ground cards you have placed. Each observation card has requirements your Meadow needs to provide before they can grow there. You can play them either on top of a ground card, or on another observation card, but your card columns must all start with a ground card. If your Meadow show all the symbols that matches the requirement symbols on the card you want to play, you can place the card on any card that shows one of those symbols. If you want to place a card that needs a tree and litterfall symbol for example. You need to have a litterfall ground card somewhere in your Meadow, together with a visible tree symbol. You may then choose to place that card in the column of the litterfall ground card, or on top of the card with the tree symbol. Note that for every card you place, you will cover the previous symbol of the card underneath, making it unusable, but you will gain the symbol of the card you have just placed. You should always leave the victory points visible when placing cards.

Some requirement symbols are divided by a slash, meaning you can choose one of those symbols. Or you can come across requirement symbols who have arrows next to them, meaning you have to place the card to an adjacent card that has the required symbol. If you want to place a card that has a home symbol with arrows as a requirement for example. You can place the card either to the left or right from a card that has a house symbol in your Meadow. If you want to play a card, but you are missing a symbol. You can also discard two cards in your hand to replace that symbol, you can do this multiple times. The main board can also provide you with landscape cards. Landscape cards are placed above your meadow on top of a road token. If you have used a road token, flip it to the side without a road icon to show it is used. Landscape cards sometimes also have requirements for certain symbols, but they always need a road token before you can place them in your area. If you come across a discovery card, you can try to fulfill the requirements in order to place them on a landscape cards. Discovery cards are items and souvenirs you find during your travels and they always need at least an empty landscape card in order to place them. Some discovery cards also need other symbols. As with other cards, for landscape or discovery cards you can always discard two cards in order to ignore one requirement symbol. You can never ignore a landscape or road token symbol.

If you want to use the campfire board, you have to use the bottom of your path tokens. There are four actions you can choose. You can take any face up card from the main board. You cannot play a card this turn if you take this action. You can also take two road tokens and place them above your meadow. You again cannot play a card during this turn. Another action to take is to look at the top three cards of any deck, choose one and place the other two cards at the bottom of the deck. With this action you also can’t play a card. Or you can play up to two cards from your hand in the same turn. There is also a path token with a question mark that let’s you chose any special action from the campfire board. If you would like to play a card, but all the notches around the main board are full, you can place a path token on an empty bench on the campfire board. This allows you to still play one card, but you can’t draw a card this turn. If you collect many symbols in your meadow, you might be able to fulfill some goals on the campfire board. If you have both symbols visible of a neighboring pair or tokens on the campfire board, you can place a bonus token (starting with the lowest number) in between those symbols on the campfire board. You can place one bonus token per turn if you have placed a path token on the campfire board.

When each player has placed their path tokens, the round ends. Collect your path tokens and move the round tracker to the next spot. Also pass the first player token to the next player. Once the round marker reaches the hourglass on the campfire board, discard all the cards from the main board and replace the S deck with the N deck. Then refill the main board with the new deck included. Once the final round has been taken (the last spot on the round tracker), the game ends. Count the victory points from all of your cards and bonus tokens to reveal your score. The player with the most victory points, wins the game and has build the best eco system.

Playthrough of the game.

We are absolutely in love with this game and I even think it’s our favorite game so far of 2021. I often have the problem with many games that I lose points because I want the most pretty cards. In Meadow, simply every card is beautiful and satisfying to collect. The more rounds you play, the bigger your Meadow gets and the more you have to look at. That doesn’t mean it gets easier though. It actually get’s harder to maintain your eco system as it also does in real life. The more complex the eco system becomes, the more symbols it might need in order to add the cards with the most victory points. I often had the situation (especially in our first game) that I was saving up for a card that needed three hard to get symbols. When I finally thought I had them all, I noticed I covered one of them up, in order to gain another symbol needed. The way you plan and map your meadow out is very important in order to score the most points. The designers made this game also connect in the most brilliant way. In order to place a butterfly, one of the symbols needed is often a larvae for example. Or birds often need insects or fruit symbols.

The way the path tokens work is also really well thought of. You only have number three on one path token for example, and it also has the special action to draw to cards from a deck and add one card to your hand. If you use this special action, you can’t use the number three to draw cards this round. The spaces at the campfire board are also very limited, so if you want to use it, you better be fast. Especially if you play with more players. The quality of this game is also amazing, the cards feel great as well as the boards and tokens. Everything combined, this is in our opinion one of the best games we have played so far.

Final Thoughts.

Meadow is a strategic card collecting game where you have to collect as many matching symbols as you can, in order to place the most cards and collect victory points. Each card is 100% unique and holds a stunning piece of art. In our opinion this game is designed brilliantly. To be able to play a butterfly, you probably need a larvae somewhere in your ecosystem before you can place it. You also have to plan ahead very well in order to gain the most points, since you have a limited amount of actions each round. You can also use only one action of the two actions printed on each of your path tokens, so choose wisely. We are very happy to have contributed to such a beautiful brilliantly designed game. We can easy say that for us not only the art in this game beats everything we have played so far, but this is also our new favorite game of 2021 so far.
Thank you fo this great review - it's really nice to hear Meadow is your new favorite game of 2021 so far

