



































Instrukcja

Nie musisz czytać tej 
instrukcji, obejrzyj 
film prezentujący 

zasady.

Rulebook Don’t want to read the rules? 
Scan the QR code to watch 

 a video tutorial.



3

From the Designer
I’d like to greatly thank all the testers and colleagues  
from Rebel studio – without your involvement, patience 
and kindness my simple prototype would have never  
become a real game.

My son Wojciech accompanied me on all of the stages of 
development of Meadow. His enthusiasm, unwavering faith and willingness to help (as well as convincing 
me to go on walks in surrounding forests and meadows) were the best support in the moments of doubt. 
Thanks a lot for all you did for me!

In Meadow, players are wanderers observing nature, home to the most interesting stories, where animals 
and plants are the main actors. Equipped with a map, players wander a picturesque landscape, searching 
for inspiration among the breathtaking sights. They are led by their passion for discovering the mysteries 

of nature, and by their desire to become acclaimed as the most skilled observer. The title will be won by the 
person who earns the most points from observing types of animals, plants, and landscapes, as well as from 
souvenirs gathered during their trip. The competition continues at the campfire where players race to fulfill 
their adventure’s goals.

Rebel Sp. z o.o.
ul. Budowlanych 64c

80-298 Gdańsk, Poland
publishing@rebel.pl
www.rebelgames.eu

Credits

Hi, I’m Robin Redbreast!
I’m going to share some secrets of the Meadow 
with you, so it’s easier for you to understand 
the rules of the game and will make you a more 
inquisitive observer of nature. Maybe I can  
help you win!
Search for me on the following pages. Catch me  
if you can!

Game designer: Klemens Kalicki
Illustrations: Karolina Kijak
Graphic design: Katarzyna Fiebiger

Game development: Przemek Wojtkowiak,  
Andrzej Olejarczyk, Wojciech Chroboczyński
Project coordination: Sławek Gacal

Translation and editing: Tabletop Polish
Layout: Rebel team, Łukasz S. Kowal

studio@rebel.pl



3

Components

Solo play components:

 
1 main board 2 two-sided campfire boards

(depending on player count)

2 block tokens 
for the campfire 

boards

184 cards, including:
45 N deck 

cards
45 W deck 

cards
45 S deck 

cards
45 E deck 

cards

4 two-sided 
 starting ground  

cards

4 foldable  
deck holders

11 basic  
goal tokens

1 goal token 
for games using  
the Envelope U:  
Big Encounters

20 path tokens 
(5 in each of the 4 colors)

1 round marker

12 bonus tokens  
(3 in each of the 4 colors)

28 road tokens 1 first player  
token

5 envelopes 
(6 cards in each)

1 solo play  
game token

4 color 
markers

S
02

S
01

S
01



54

Game Setup
(for 2, 3 or 4 players) Place the game board  

in the middle of the table.

Place the road tokens within easy access  
of all players.

Place 3 of the 4 deck holders in the  
cut-out spots on the main board. Place the  

remaining deck holder next to the board. 

Divide the cards according to their 
backs and create 4 decks.

Shuffle each of the decks separately and place them  
in the deck holders as illustrated. At the beginning  
of the game, you will use 3 decks: W, S and E. Later in 
the game, the S deck will be replaced with the N deck.

Place the correct campfire board for your 
player count next to the main board with 

the side showing the symbol for  
the number of players. The unused camp-

fire board is returned to the box.

Fill all the spots on the board  
with face-up cards of the corre-

sponding decks. The left column 
will have 4 W cards, the next two 
columns have 4 S cards each, and 

the final column will have 4 E cards.

1

3

2

4

5

/ / /

For the solo play rules, see page 14.



54

Each player chooses a color and takes  
the following components:

Shuffle the goal tokens and randomly place 
1 token at a time on the square spots on  
the campfire board. Unused goal tokens  
are returned to the box (a 4-player 
game will use all the basic goal 
tokens).

7

8

Place the round marker  
on the 1st rock of the round 
tracker.9

When playing a 2-player game,  
block 2 notches of the campfire board   

 with the block tokens. In a 3-player  
game, block only 1. These notches are  

blocked for the entirety of the game.

The player that was last 
stung by a bee receives 
the first player token  
and starts the game.

10

5 path tokens matching the color of the  
player (in a 4-player game, the token with  
the ? symbol is returned to the box – it will  
not be used),

3 bonus tokens of the matching color,

a road token with the visible road symbol,

a two-sided starting ground card.

1 player 1, 2, 3, 4, ? 3 2 6

2 players 1, 2, 3, 4, ? 5 2 6

3 players 1, 2, 3, 4, ? 8 1 6

4 players 1, 2, 3, 4 11 0 8

Component and round number depending  
on the player count

block 
tokens roundsgoal 

tokens
path 

tokens

6



76

Each player starts the game with 5 cards in 
hand.
The cards are taken in the following way: 
Beginning with the player to the right of the 
starting player and going counter-clockwise, 
each player chooses a row on the main  
board and adds all 4 of the cards in that  
row to their hand. They then draw 1 card 
from the currently unused N deck.
After a player chooses their cards, refill the 
empty slots on the board with cards from the corresponding decks.
Repeat until all players have their starting 5 cards.
Before the 1st round, but after taking the card rows, each player 
chooses a side of their starting ground card and places the card in 
their meadow area – with the chosen side face up – as their first card.

Example 1. Steven chooses the 2nd row and takes the 4 cards from the 
board and 1 card from the N deck that is currently next to the board.

Important! When preparing the 1st game, it might be easier  
to randomly deal the starting 5 cards, rather than select them  
from a row. Thus, deal each player: 1 W card, 2 S cards, 1 E card, 
and 1 N card. 

Meadow area
Here you play the vertically  

oriented ground and observation 
cards (see page 8).

Two-sided starting  
ground card

You start the game with  
this card showing the side 

 of your choice.

Bonus and path tokens
Place these components 
next to your meadow area.

Each player starts with  
1 road token.

Surroundings area
Here you play the horizontally 
oriented landscape and discovery  
cards (see pages 10–11).

  Player area

+

Player Preparation
It’s a good idea to choose a row that contains 
cards that are connected. You will read about  
it later in the rulebook.

You are ready to play the game!
Player hand



76

The game consists of 6 rounds in a 2- and 3-player game,  
or 8 rounds in a 4-player game (the number of stones on the  
campfire board corresponds to the number of rounds). Players  
take their turns in clockwise order, starting with the first player.

  Player Turn
During your turn, you must perform an action, placing your path 
token in 1 notch of the main board or campfire board. You can 
place your token only in an unoccupied notch. The token remains 
in the notch until the end of the round.

Each path token allows you to take 1 of 2 action types, depending 
on its placement:

   main board – drawing cards and (optionally) playing them  
in the meadow or surroundings area,

   campfire board – taking a special action and (optionally)  
fulfilling a goal.

The top  
The action becomes available 
after placing the token in the 

notch in the main board.

The bottom  
The action becomes available 
after placing the token in the 
notch in the campfire board.

  End of the Round
The round lasts until all players have used all of their path tokens. 
Then the players collect their path tokens, and the first player 
token moves to the player to the left of the current first player.  
The round token moves to the next spot on the round tracker.

  Drawing and Playing Cards
If you place your path token in 1 of the notches in the main board, 
you perform the top action. After placing the path token, you:

   Count a number of spaces from the token equal to the number 
shown in the direction it is pointing. The ? is any number 1–4 of 
your choosing. You must take the card chosen by the token. The 
empty spot is immediately refilled with a card from the corre-
sponding deck.

   You may then play 1 card from your hand into your meadow or 
surroundings area (you may play the card you have just taken 
from the main board or a card that you already had in your hand). 

Important! In the rare case that an empty spot cannot be refilled 
because there are no cards left in the deck, it should be left empty. 
If you place the path token that enables you to take the card from 
that empty spot, you can only play a card.

Example 2. Caroline, the yellow player, places her path token in  
a free notch. The number on the token indicates the row that she 
takes the card from. Caroline uses the number 3 path token, therefore 
she takes the 3rd card along the row, counting from the placed token. 
Then, after refilling the empty spot with the S card, Caroline can  
play 1 card from her hand.

Surroundings area
Here you play the horizontally 
oriented landscape and discovery  
cards (see pages 10–11).

Main Board ActionsThe Course of the Game

  End of the Game
The game ends after finishing the last round. The winner of the 
game is the player with the most points from played cards and 
fulfilled goals. 



98

You play vertically oriented ground and observation cards in your 
meadow area. You play the horizontally oriented landscape and 
discovery cards in your surroundings area.

Important! You cannot move played cards (of any type) – they 
must stay where played until the end of the game.

  Ground Cards
The ground cards illustrate ecosystems that are connected with the 
habitats of various types of animals, plants and fungi. They have 
a ground symbol, which will be useful for playing cards  
in the future.

When playing a ground card, place it on the right or left side  
of any already played ground cards.

You can have up to 10 ground cards in your meadow area.

Symbols at the bottom of the ground cards must always be visible – 
you cannot cover them. The ground cards create the lowest level of 
the meadow, therefore they cannot be played on top of other cards.

Rules for Playing Cards

  Observation cards
Observation cards present types of animals, plants, and fungi as 
well as human made creations – buildings and surrounding items. 
They represent notes that you make during your trek.

You can play an observation card either on top of a ground card or 
on another observation card if the requirements to play the card 
are met. The requirements are considered fulfilled if your meadow 
area has all the required symbols visible.

Your card columns must start with a ground card, but you can have 
any number of observation cards in each column.

Card 
symbol

Ground 
symbol

Litterfall

Grass

Sands

Rocks

Wetlands

Ground symbols:

Victory points

Requirement  
symbols

Card symbol

Example 3. Caroline decided to play a ground card. Her meadow  
area already has 2 other ground cards. The arrows indicate where 
she may play the new ground card.

Remember, the more different symbols on your 
ground cards in your meadow area, the greater 
possibility to play the next card.



98

Example 4. Will wants to play 
his Common hawthorn card. In 
his meadow area, he already has 
2 cards with the required  
symbol. He can choose to play 
the new card on either of them. 
When playing the card, he covers 
the chosen symbol but leaves 
the victory point value on the 
covered card visible.

Example 5. Steven plays his 
Eurasian hoopoe card in his 
meadow area. This card re-
quires the  and  symbols. 
Steven can choose which of 
the required symbols to cover. 
The covered symbol cannot 
be used again, however the 
remaining symbol can be used 
in the future (as long as it 
is visible). Steven also gains 
a new  symbol from his 
hoopoe.

Example 6. Will plays the 
Peacock butterfly card. This 
card requires the  and 

 symbols. Will may there-
fore play it on the ground 
card with the  symbol or 
at the top of the column with 
the  ground symbol base.

Playing Observation Cards
When playing an observation card on a ground card, you must 
remember not to cover the ground symbol. When playing new 
cards, make sure to place them so the victory points value on 
a previously played card is visible.

If 1 of the requirements on the observation card is for a ground 
symbol, you can play the card directly on top of an empty ground 
card (you must still fulfill all other requirements) or on another 
observation card at the top of a column with that ground card at 
the bottom (regardless of the symbols on the top observation card 
in this column – see Example 6).When playing an observation card, the following scenarios are 

possible:
    Card has 1 requirement. You play the card on top of a card  

with the required symbol (see Example 4). If you have several 
cards that fulfill this requirement, choose 1 of them and place  
the card on it.

    Card has 2 or more requirements. You play the card on 
a chosen card that has any of the required symbols (see  
Example 5). All of the required symbols must be visible in  
your meadow – only then can you cover 1 of them.

Choice of a Requirement
If the requirement symbols are divided with a slash, it 
means that you need only 1 out of 2 presented symbols 
to fulfill the requirement. You decide which symbol to 
choose. For game purposes, a choice requirement only 
counts as one symbol (not two). 



1110

  Landscape Cards
Landscape cards have illustrations of the landscapes that the  
players wander. They give you the  symbol. 

Landscape cards are played in the surroundings area (see page 6). 
All of the landscape cards require a road token.

When playing a landscape card, the following scenarios are possible:
   Card requires only a road token. You play the card and place  
1 of your unused road tokens below it, then flip the token, so the 
side without the road symbol is visible, marking it as used.

Example 9. Caroline plays a landscape card in her surroundings area. 
To do that she takes 1 of her unused road tokens and places it below  
this card and then flips the token so the side without the road symbol  
is visible.

Example 7. Will may place the Chopped firewood card on 1 of  
the 3 marked spots.

Victory  
points

Requirement symbols

Card 
symbol

Example 8. Steven wants 
to play the Siberian flying 
squirrel card. In his  
meadow area, he only 
has 1 card with the required 

 symbol. He plays this 
card on the card with the 

 symbol and ignores the 
missing symbol by  
discarding 2 other cards.

Replacing a Missing Symbol 
If you are missing a required symbol in your play area, you may 
discard any 2 cards from your hand to ignore 1 requirement symbol 
of the played card (you can do this multiple times). You cannot 
ignore all of the symbols this way – you must always have at least  
1 of the required symbols. Place the discarded cards in any order on 
the bottom of the corresponding decks (see the example below).

Required Adjacent Columns
On some of the cards, the requirement symbols are 
marked with arrows. In such a case, the card must 
be played in a column immediately adjacent to 
a column showing the indicated required symbol.  
If, among the requirement symbols, there is a symbol 
marked with arrows and another symbol without 

arrows, you must have both symbols in your play area, but you 
can choose where to place the card (see the example below).

Remember that when you play a card, you lose 
the symbol of the card you cover in your meadow 
area. However, you still have the ground symbol 
visible and you can use it multiple times. Some of 
the cards provide 2 card symbols – covering them 
loses both.



1110

Example 11. Properly filled player area.

   Card requires a road token and other symbols. You must have 
all of the required symbols in your meadow area and a road token. 
You play the card and place 1 of your unused road tokens below it, 
then flip the token, so the side without the road symbol is visible, 
marking it as used. You do not lose the required symbols – you 
may still use them to fulfill the requirements of other cards.

If you are missing a required symbol in your play area, you may 
discard any 2 cards from your hand to ignore 1 requirement 
symbol of the played card (you can do this multiple times).  
You cannot ignore the  symbol this way. Place the discarded 
cards in any order on the bottom of the corresponding decks.

  Discovery Cards
Discovery cards are items you find during your trek. They are 
souvenirs and mementos from your travels. They are marked  
with the  symbol. 

You place the discovery cards on previously played landscape  
cards by covering the  symbol. 

When playing discovery cards the following scenarios are possible:
     Card requires only the  symbol. You play the card, placing  

it on one of your unused landscape cards.
    Card requires the  symbol and other symbols. You must  

have all of the required symbols in your meadow area. You play 
the card, placing it on one of your unused landscape cards.  
You do not lose the other required symbols – you may still use 
them to fulfill the requirements of other cards.

Example 10. Will found a horseshoe in his travels. This card 
requires the  and  symbols. In his meadow area, Will has  
a visible  symbol, so he can play this card on a landscape card.

As with other cards, you can discard any 2 cards from your hand to 
ignore 1 requirement symbol from the played card (you can do this 
multiple times). You cannot ignore the  requirement this  
way. Place the discarded cards in any order on the bottom of the 
corresponding decks. 

Victory  
points

Requirement symbols

Card 
symbol



1312

   Performing Special Actions 
and Optional Goal Fulfillment

If you place your path token in 1 of the notches in the campfire 
board, you perform its bottom action. After placing the path token, 
you take the indicated special action and you have a chance  
to fulfill a goal (see next page).

Types of special actions:

 Take any face-up card from the main board and refill 
the empty spot with the top card of the corresponding 
deck. You cannot play this card this turn.

 Take 2 road tokens and place them in your surround- 
ings area with the road symbol facing up. You cannot 
play a card this turn.

 Look at the top 3 cards of one deck on the board  
(not the unused one). Add 1 of these cards to your 
hand and put the remaining 2 cards on the bottom of 
the deck in any order. You cannot play a card this turn.

 Play up to 2 cards from your hand into your meadow 
and/or surroundings area.

Campfire Board Actions

Notches in the 
campfire board

Goals fulfilled by players 
(marked with tokens)

Bench

„?” Path Token
This path token is used in a 2- and 3-player 
game. Placing this token in a main board notch 
allows you to take any card from the indicated 
row or column (the ? value is decided by you). 
Placing this token in a campfire board notch 
allows you to take any special action.

  Placing a Path Token on the Bench
You can play the path token on an unoccupied bench on the camp-
fire board (marked with the  symbol). Doing this allows you to 
play 1 card in your meadow or surroundings area.

Important! If you chose one of the first 3 special 
actions, you cannot play any cards! It’s an often 
forgotten rule. 

It’s much better to draw and play a card than  
to just play a card. Place the path token on the 
bench only if you really need to play a card and the 
current situation doesn’t allow you to do that.



1312

  Goals
On the campfire board, the neighboring goal tokens create pairs.  
If you have both symbols of the pair visible in your meadow area, 
you may claim the space between the pair with one of your bonus 
tokens. You may only claim it after placing a path token in the 
notch of the campfire board. You decide if you want to place the 
bonus token before, during or after taking the special action. Your 
bonus tokens are placed on the board starting with the lowest 
valued ones (in the order 2, 3, 4). Only 1 bonus token can be placed 
between each pair. During your turn, you can place only 1 bonus 
token on the campfire board even if you have more symbols that 
fulfil several goals.

When all players have placed all their path tokens, the  
round ends. Then the players collect all their path tokens.

The player that started the round passes the first player token  
to the player on their left. In the next round, this person will  
be the first player. 

Move the round marker to the next spot on the round tracker.

  Halfway Point
When the round marker passes  
the hourglass on the campfire  
board, you must do the following:

 

    Discard all of the cards from the main board and randomly place 
them on the bottom of the corresponding decks.

   Replace the S deck holder with the N deck holder.
   Refill the board with new cards from the corresponding decks.

Continue the game according to the normal rules.

End of Round

Example 12. Steven places a path token in the notch of the camp- 
fire board and takes a special action. In his meadow area, he has 
the  and  symbols. There is a pair matching those symbols 
on the campfire board, and the space between them is free.  
He plays his 2-value bonus token between this pair. 

End of Game and Scoring 

The game ends at the end of the final round (last spot on the 
round tracker). Players count their victory points from the cards 
they played in their meadow and surroundings areas, as well as 
their bonus tokens from the campfire board. When counting the 
victory points from the played cards, remember to count all the 
cards in your play area. Cards remaining in your hand do not give 
you any victory points. Each bonus token played on the campfire 
board gives exactly the same number of victory points as its value. 
Unused bonus tokens do not give any victory points.

The winner is the player with the most victory points. In case of 
a tie, the winner is the player with the most discovery cards played. 
If there is still a tie, the players share victory.

When taking the special action with the number 
4 or ? path token (if ? copies the action of the 
number 4 token), you can place the bonus token 
before or after playing your first or second card.



1514

In this variant, the game is played exactly as a 2-player game,  
but your only opponent is a dummy player called Rover.

Solo VariantEnvelopes

There are 5 envelopes in the game box with thematic cards. 
Because of the advanced rules of those cards, we recom-
mend you not use them in the first few games. It is assumed 
you will open the envelopes after fulfilling the requirements 
described below, but do not take that too seriously. It is all 
about having fun!

The thematic sets of cards in the envelopes are independent 
expansions. You can freely mix them with the base cards by 
shuffling them into their corresponding decks. Each card is 
marked in the bottom part with a letter corresponding to the 
marking on the envelope to make separating the cards easier 
during future games.

    ENVELOPE T – National Parks. Open after visiting 
a national park or nature reserve. Cards in this envelope 
have only 2 ground symbols. Cards from this expansion  
do not introduce any new mechanics.

    ENVELOPE U – Big Encounters. Open at the end of any 
game that has at least 5  symbols visible among all 
player areas. This set introduces the  symbol. You 
cannot place any cards on a card with this 
symbol. Even if there is a required ground 
symbol on the card in the column or if this 
column would fulfill the requirement of adjacent 
areas. The punch board includes a red token with the  
symbol. If you use cards from this envelope, add this token 
to the other basic goal tokens.

    ENVELOPE W – Long Unseen. Open after a trip to  
a forest, where you saw a wild animal. Cards from this 
expansion do not introduce any new mechanics.

    ENVELOPE X – First Signs of Spring. Open on the first 
day of spring. Cards from this expansion do not introduce 
any new mechanics.

    ENVELOPE Y – Christmas. Open on the 24th of Decem-
ber. Cards from this expansion do not introduce any new 
mechanics.

  Changes to the Setup
Place the campfire board below the main board with  
the symbol facing up. Place the round marker on the  
1st rock of the round tracker.

Randomly pick 3 (face-down) goal tokens. Place 1 face-up token 
at a time on the square spots around the campfire on the camp-
fire board.

Place 2 block tokens in the notches of the campfire board.

Choose a color and take all of the components for that color  
as in a standard game. 

Place the solo play game token next to the main board.

Shuffle the path tokens (including the ? tokens) of all of the 
other colors and form a face-down pile. Place them next to 
the solo play game token.

Take 1 color marker of each of the other colors and  
randomly place them as illustrated, face-up.

Pile of the remaining 
path tokens

Solo play  
game token

Color markers

Player 
color

Player tokens



1514

Rover does not have their own meadow or surroundings areas, and 
the cards they collect during the game are placed in a deck above 
the solo play game token.

Take your starting cards and refill the empty slots on the board with 
cards from the corresponding deck. Then take all of the cards from 
the 1st row under the deck holders and 1 card from the N deck and 
place them in Rover’s deck. Refill the board again.

  Changes to Gameplay
In the solo game, Rover is always the first player. The turns are 
taken interchangeably until you run out of path tokens.

During Rover’s turn, flip the top path token in their pile.
     If the token is a ? token, place it in any unused notch of the  

campfire board. If all of the notches are used, discard the token.  
In both cases, do not take any other actions.

    If you flip any other token, look at its color. Place it in an unused  
notch of the main board according to the solo play game token 
and the color markers. If the notch indicated by the solo play 
game token is already taken, use the closest clockwise unused 
notch. Then take the card indicated by the path token, place 
it on Rover’s deck, and refill the empty spot with a card from  
the corresponding deck. 

Rover does not use the bonus tokens.

The round is over when you place your last path token. Collect 
all of your path tokens, then collect all of the other tokens (those 
played by Rover this round and the unused ones), shuffle them 
and create a new face-down pile. Move the round marker to the 
next spot on the round tracker.

When the round marker passes the hourglass symbol, do the 
following:

     Discard all of the cards from the main board and randomly  
place them on the bottom of the corresponding decks.

   Replace the S deck holder with the N deck holder.
    Refill the board with new cards from the corresponding 

decks.

  End of Game and Scoring
The game ends at the end of the 6th round – it is time to count the 
points.

Count all of the points in Rover’s card deck.

Then count your points according to the standard rules. If your score 
is lower, it means you did not observe enough interesting things 
during this trek. If your score is higher or equal to Rover’s score, 
check the table below to see how you faired.

Example 13. Caroline reveals a path token from Rover’s pile. The 
path token is red and shows the number 3. Caroline places the path 
token on the left side of the main board in the notch marked on the 
solo play game token with number 3. She takes the card indicated by 
the path token and places it on Rover’s card deck.

Solo scoring table

<39 You were distracted. You managed to immortalize  
only a few interesting species.

40–49 It was a fruitful trek. However, you observed only  
a few fascinating species.

50–59 Amazing species! The memories of this trek will stay 
with you for a long time.

60+ Your collection is worth displaying.



or on the main board

Take the card 
indicated by  
the token.

then you may play a card

Take 1 of your path tokens and place it:

either on the campfire board

and take a special action:

Take 1 card from  
the board.

Take 2 road tokens.

Look at the top 3 cards 
of any deck and keep  
1 of them.

Play 2 cards.

play a card

If you have the 
required symbols.

Place an 
observation 
card on top of 
a card with the 
required symol.

D31

Place a ground 
card next  
to another 
ground card 
(max 10).

Place  
landscape 
and discovery 
cards above 
your meadow 
area.

The number of symbols in each deck 1–2, 3–4, 5+

Actions in Player Turn

E E E E E E E

W WW W W W WW W

S S S S S S S S

N N N N N N N N N N N N

E

S S

© 2021 Rebel Sp. z o.o. First edition.  All rights reserved.


